

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 146 (Monday, September 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 146 (Monday, September 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S5179-S5189]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               TRAFFICKING VICTIMS PROTECTION ACT OF 2017

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the immediate consideration of Calendar No. 189, S. 1312.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report the bill by title.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

       A bill (S. 1312) to prioritize the fight against human 
     trafficking in the United States.

  There being no objection, the Senate proceeded to consider the bill, 
which had been reported from the Committee on the Judiciary, with an 
amendment to strike all after the enacting clause and insert in lieu 
thereof the following:

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

       (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the 
     ``Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2017''.
       (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act 
     is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings; sense of Congress.

     TITLE I--FREDERICK DOUGLASS TRAFFICKING PREVENTION ACT OF 2017

Sec. 101. Training of school resource officers to recognize and respond 
              to signs of human trafficking.
Sec. 102. Training for school personnel.

               TITLE II--JUSTICE FOR TRAFFICKING VICTIMS

Sec. 201. Injunctive relief.
Sec. 202. Improving support for missing and exploited children.
Sec. 203. Forensic and investigative assistance.

             TITLE III--SERVICES FOR TRAFFICKING SURVIVORS

Sec. 301. Extension of anti-trafficking grant programs.
Sec. 302. Establishment of Office of Victim Assistance.
Sec. 303. Implementing a victim-centered approach to human trafficking.
Sec. 304. Improving victim screening.
Sec. 305. Improving victim services.

    TITLE IV--IMPROVED DATA COLLECTION AND INTERAGENCY COORDINATION

Sec. 401. Promoting data collection on human trafficking.

[[Page S5180]]

Sec. 402. Crime reporting.
Sec. 403. Human trafficking assessment.

               TITLE V--TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

Sec. 501. Encouraging a victim-centered approach to training of Federal 
              law enforcement personnel.
Sec. 502. Victim screening training.
Sec. 503. Judicial training.
Sec. 504. Training of tribal law enforcement and prosecutorial 
              personnel.

                        TITLE VI--ACCOUNTABILITY

Sec. 601. Grant accountability.

  TITLE VII--PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP ADVISORY COUNCIL TO END HUMAN 
                              TRAFFICKING

Sec. 701. Short title.
Sec. 702. Definitions.
Sec. 703. Public-Private Partnership Advisory Council to End Human 
              Trafficking.
Sec. 704. Reports.
Sec. 705. Sunset.

     SEC. 2. FINDINGS; SENSE OF CONGRESS.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) The crime of human trafficking involves the 
     exploitation of adults through force, fraud, or coercion, and 
     children for such purposes as forced labor or commercial sex.
       (2) Reliable data on the prevalence of human trafficking in 
     the United States is not available, but cases have been 
     reported in all 50 States, the territories of the United 
     States, and the District of Columbia.
       (3) Each year, thousands of individuals may be trafficked 
     within the United States, according to recent estimates from 
     victim advocates.
       (4) More accurate and comprehensive data on the prevalence 
     of human trafficking is needed to properly combat this form 
     of modern slavery in the United States.
       (5) Victims of human trafficking can include men, women, 
     and children who are diverse with respect to race, ethnicity, 
     and nationality, among other factors.
       (6) Since the enactment of the Trafficking Victims 
     Protection Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-386; 114 Stat. 1464), 
     human traffickers have launched increasingly sophisticated 
     schemes to increase the scope of their activities and the 
     number of their victims.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     Congress supports additional efforts to raise awareness of 
     and oppose human trafficking.

     TITLE I--FREDERICK DOUGLASS TRAFFICKING PREVENTION ACT OF 2017

     SEC. 101. TRAINING OF SCHOOL RESOURCE OFFICERS TO RECOGNIZE 
                   AND RESPOND TO SIGNS OF HUMAN TRAFFICKING.

       Section 1701(b)(12) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control 
     and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796dd(b)(12)) is 
     amended by inserting ``, including the training of school 
     resource officers in the prevention of human trafficking 
     offenses'' before the semicolon at the end.

     SEC. 102. TRAINING FOR SCHOOL PERSONNEL.

       Section 41201(f) of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 
     (42 U.S.C. 14043c(f)) is amended by striking ``2014 through 
     2018'' and inserting ``2019 through 2022''.

               TITLE II--JUSTICE FOR TRAFFICKING VICTIMS

     SEC. 201. INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 77 of title 18, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 1595 the 
     following:

     ``Sec. 1595A. Civil injunctions

       ``(a) In General.--Whenever it shall appear that any person 
     is engaged or is about to engage in any act that constitutes 
     or will constitute a violation of this chapter, chapter 110, 
     or chapter 117, or a conspiracy under section 371 to commit a 
     violation of this chapter, chapter 110, or chapter 117, the 
     Attorney General may bring a civil action in a district court 
     of the United States seeking an order to enjoin such act.
       ``(b) Action by Court.--The court shall proceed as soon as 
     practicable to the hearing and determination of a civil 
     action brought under subsection (a), and may, at any time 
     before final determination, enter such a restraining order or 
     prohibition, or take such other action, as is warranted to 
     prevent a continuing and substantial injury to the United 
     States or to any person or class of persons for whose 
     protection the civil action is brought.
       ``(c) Procedure.--
       ``(1) In general.--A proceeding under this section shall be 
     governed by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, except 
     that, if an indictment has been returned against the 
     respondent, discovery shall be governed by the Federal Rules 
     of Criminal Procedure.
       ``(2) Sealed proceedings.--If a civil action is brought 
     under subsection (a) before an indictment is returned against 
     the respondent or while an indictment against the respondent 
     is under seal--
       ``(A) the court shall place the civil action under seal; 
     and
       ``(B) when the indictment is unsealed, the court shall 
     unseal the civil action unless good cause exists to keep the 
     civil action under seal.
       ``(d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall 
     be construed or applied so as to abridge the exercise of 
     rights guaranteed under the First Amendment to the 
     Constitution of the United States.''.
       (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of 
     sections for chapter 77 of title 18, United States Code, is 
     amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1595 
     the following:

``1595A. Civil injunctions.''.

     SEC. 202. IMPROVING SUPPORT FOR MISSING AND EXPLOITED 
                   CHILDREN.

       (a) Findings.--Section 402 of the Missing Children's 
     Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5771) is amended--
       (1) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
       ``(1) each year tens of thousands of children run away, or 
     are abducted or removed, from the control of a parent having 
     legal custody without the consent of that parent, under 
     circumstances which immediately place the child in grave 
     danger;'';
       (2) by striking paragraphs (4) and (5);
       (3) in paragraph (6) by inserting ``, including child sex 
     trafficking and sextortion'' after ``exploitation'';
       (4) in paragraph (8) by adding ``and'' at the end;
       (5) by striking paragraph (9);
       (6) by amending paragraph (10) to read as follows:
       ``(10) a key component of such programs is the National 
     Center for Missing and Exploited Children that--
       ``(A) serves as a nonprofit, national resource center and 
     clearinghouse to provide assistance to victims, families, 
     child-serving professionals, and the general public;
       ``(B) works with the Department of Justice, the Federal 
     Bureau of Investigation, the United States Marshals Service, 
     the Department of the Treasury, the Department of State, U.S. 
     Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the United States Secret 
     Service, the United States Postal Inspection Service, other 
     agencies, and nongovernmental organizations in the effort to 
     find missing children and to prevent child victimization; and
       ``(C) coordinates with each of the missing children 
     clearinghouses operated by the 50 States, the District of 
     Columbia, Puerto Rico, and international organizations to 
     transmit images and information regarding missing and 
     exploited children to law enforcement agencies, 
     nongovernmental organizations, and corporate partners across 
     the United States and around the world instantly.''; and
       (7) by redesignating paragraphs (6), (7), (8), and (10), as 
     amended by this subsection, as paragraphs (4), (5), (6), and 
     (7), respectively.
       (b) Definitions.--Section 403 of the Missing Children's 
     Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5772) is amended--
       (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
       ``(1) the term `missing child' means any individual less 
     than 18 years of age whose whereabouts are unknown to such 
     individual's parent;'';
       (2) in paragraph (2) by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (3) in paragraph (3) by striking the period at the end and 
     inserting ``; and''; and
       (4) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(4) the term `parent' includes a legal guardian or other 
     individual who may lawfully exercise parental rights with 
     respect to the child.''.
       (c) Duties and Functions of the Administrator.--Section 404 
     of the Missing Children's Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5773) is 
     amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) in paragraph (3) by striking ``telephone line'' and 
     inserting ``hotline''; and
       (B) in paragraph (6)(E)--
       (i) by striking ``telephone line'' and inserting 
     ``hotline'';
       (ii) by striking ``(b)(1)(A) and'' and inserting 
     ``(b)(1)(A),''; and
       (iii) by inserting ``, and the number and types of reports 
     to the tipline established under subsection (b)(1)(K)(i)'' 
     before the semicolon at the end;
       (2) in subsection (b)(1)--
       (A) in subparagraph (A)--
       (i) by striking ``telephone line'' each place it appears 
     and inserting ``hotline''; and
       (ii) by striking ``legal custodian'' and inserting 
     ``parent'';
       (B) in subparagraph (C)--
       (i) in clause (i)--

       (I) by striking ``restaurant'' and inserting ``food''; and
       (II) by striking ``and'' at the end;

       (ii) in clause (ii) by adding ``and'' at the end; and
       (iii) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(iii) innovative and model programs, services, and 
     legislation that benefit missing and exploited children;'';
       (C) by striking subparagraphs (E), (F), and (G);
       (D) by amending subparagraph (H) to read as follows:
       ``(H) provide technical assistance and training to 
     families, law enforcement agencies, State and local 
     governments, elements of the criminal justice system, 
     nongovernmental agencies, local educational agencies, and the 
     general public--
       ``(i) in the prevention, investigation, prosecution, and 
     treatment of cases involving missing and exploited children;
       ``(ii) to respond to foster children missing from the State 
     child welfare system in coordination with child welfare 
     agencies and courts handling juvenile justice and dependency 
     matters; and
       ``(iii) in the identification, location, and recovery of 
     victims of, and children at risk for, child sex 
     trafficking;'';
       (E) by amending subparagraphs (I), (J), and (K) to read as 
     follows:
       ``(I) provide assistance to families, law enforcement 
     agencies, State and local governments, nongovernmental 
     agencies, child-serving professionals, and other individuals 
     involved in the location and recovery of missing and abducted 
     children nationally and, in cooperation with the Department 
     of State, internationally;
       ``(J) provide support and technical assistance to child-
     serving professionals involved in helping to recover missing 
     and exploited children by searching public records databases 
     to help in the identification, location, and recovery of such 
     children, and help in the location and

[[Page S5181]]

     identification of potential abductors and offenders;
       ``(K) provide forensic and direct on-site technical 
     assistance and consultation to families, law enforcement 
     agencies, child-serving professionals, and nongovernmental 
     organizations in child abduction and exploitation cases, 
     including facial reconstruction of skeletal remains and 
     similar techniques to assist in the identification of 
     unidentified deceased children;'';
       (F) by striking subparagraphs (L) and (M);
       (G) by amending subparagraph (N) to read as follows:
       ``(N) provide training, technical assistance, and 
     information to nongovernmental organizations relating to non-
     compliant sex offenders and to law enforcement agencies in 
     identifying and locating such individuals;'';
       (H) by striking subparagraph (P);
       (I) by amending subparagraph (Q) to read as follows:
       ``(Q) work with families, law enforcement agencies, 
     electronic service providers, electronic payment service 
     providers, technology companies, nongovernmental 
     organizations, and others on methods to reduce the existence 
     and distribution of online images and videos of sexually 
     exploited children--
       ``(i) by operating a tipline to--

       ``(I) provide to individuals and electronic service 
     providers an effective means of reporting Internet-related 
     and other instances of child sexual exploitation in the areas 
     of--

       ``(aa) possession, manufacture, and distribution of child 
     pornography;
       ``(bb) online enticement of children for sexual acts;
       ``(cc) child sex trafficking;
       ``(dd) sex tourism involving children;
       ``(ee) extra familial child sexual molestation;
       ``(ff) unsolicited obscene material sent to a child;
       ``(gg) misleading domain names; and
       ``(hh) misleading words or digital images on the Internet; 
     and

       ``(II) make reports received through the tipline available 
     to the appropriate law enforcement agency for its review and 
     potential investigation;

       ``(ii) by operating a child victim identification program 
     to assist law enforcement agencies in identifying victims of 
     child pornography and other sexual crimes to support the 
     recovery of children from sexually exploitative situations; 
     and
       ``(iii) by utilizing emerging technologies to provide 
     additional outreach and educational materials to parents and 
     families;'';
       (J) by striking subparagraph (R);
       (K) by amending subparagraphs (S) and (T) to read as 
     follows:
       ``(S) develop and disseminate programs and information to 
     families, child-serving professionals, law enforcement 
     agencies, State and local governments, nongovernmental 
     organizations, schools, local educational agencies, child-
     serving organizations, and the general public on--
       ``(i) the prevention of child abduction and sexual 
     exploitation;
       ``(ii) Internet safety, including tips for social media and 
     cyberbullying; and
       ``(iii) sexting and sextortion; and
       ``(T) provide technical assistance and training to local 
     educational agencies, schools, State and local law 
     enforcement agencies, individuals, and other nongovernmental 
     organizations that assist with finding missing and abducted 
     children in identifying and recovering such children;''; and
       (L) by redesignating subparagraphs (H), (I), (J), (K), (N), 
     (O), (Q), (S), (T), (U), and (V), as amended by this 
     subsection, as subparagraphs (E) through (O), respectively.
       (d) Grants.--Section 405 of the Missing Children's 
     Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5775) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) in paragraph (7) by striking ``(as defined in section 
     403(1)(A))''; and
       (B) in paragraph (8)--
       (i) by striking ``legal custodians'' and inserting 
     ``parents''; and
       (ii) by striking ``custodians' '' and inserting ``parents' 
     ''; and
       (2) in subsection (b)(1)(A) by striking ``legal 
     custodians'' and inserting ``parents''.
       (e) Reporting.--The Missing Children's Assistance Act (42 
     U.S.C. 5771 et seq.) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating sections 407 and 408 as section 408 
     and 409, respectively; and
       (2) by inserting after section 406 the following:

     ``SEC. 407. REPORTING.

       ``(a) Required Reporting.--As a condition of receiving 
     funds under section 404(b), the grant recipient shall, based 
     solely on reports received by the grantee and not involving 
     any data collection by the grantee other than those reports, 
     annually provide to the Administrator and make available to 
     the general public, as appropriate--
       ``(1) the number of children nationwide who are reported to 
     the grantee as missing;
       ``(2) the number of children nationwide who are reported to 
     the grantee as victims of non-family abductions;
       ``(3) the number of children nationwide who are reported to 
     the grantee as victims of family abductions; and
       ``(4) the number of missing children recovered nationwide 
     whose recovery was reported to the grantee.
       ``(b) Incidence of Attempted Child Abductions.--As a 
     condition of receiving funds under section 404(b), the grant 
     recipient shall--
       ``(1) track the incidence of attempted child abductions in 
     order to identify links and patterns;
       ``(2) provide such information to law enforcement agencies; 
     and
       ``(3) make such information available to the general 
     public, as appropriate.''.

     SEC. 203. FORENSIC AND INVESTIGATIVE ASSISTANCE.

       Section 3056(f) of title 18, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) by inserting ``in conjunction with an investigation'' 
     after ``local law enforcement agency''; and
       (2) by striking ``in support of any investigation involving 
     missing or exploited children''.

             TITLE III--SERVICES FOR TRAFFICKING SURVIVORS

     SEC. 301. EXTENSION OF ANTI-TRAFFICKING GRANT PROGRAMS.

       (a) Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000.--The 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7101 et 
     seq.) is amended--
       (1) in section 112A(b)(4) (22 U.S.C. 7109a(b)(4)), by 
     striking ``2014 through 2017'' and inserting ``2018 through 
     2021'';
       (2) in section 113 (22 U.S.C. 7110)--
       (A) in subsection (d)--
       (i) in the paragraph (1), by striking ``$11,000,000 for 
     each of fiscal years 2014 through 2017'' and inserting 
     ``$45,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2021''; 
     and
       (ii) in paragraph (3), by striking ``2014 through 2017'' 
     and inserting ``2018 through 2021''; and
       (B) in subsection (e)--
       (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``2014 through 2017'' and 
     inserting ``2018 through 2021''; and
       (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``2014 through 2017'' 
     and inserting ``2018 through 2021''; and
       (C) in subsection (f), by striking ``2014 through 2017'' 
     and inserting ``2018 through 2021''.
       (b) Annual Trafficking Conference.--Section 201(c)(2) of 
     the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 
     2005 (42 U.S.C. 14044(c)(2)) is amended by striking ``2017'' 
     and inserting ``2021''.
       (c) Grants to State and Local Law Enforcement for Anti-
     trafficking Programs.--Section 204(e) of the Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
     14044c(e)) is amended by striking ``2017'' and inserting 
     ``2021''.
       (d) Child Advocates for Unaccompanied Minors.--Section 
     235(c)(6)(F) of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims 
     Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 (8 U.S.C. 
     1232(c)(6)(F)) is amended--
       (1) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking 
     ``Secretary and Human Services'' and inserting ``Secretary of 
     Health and Human Services''; and
       (2) in clause (ii), by striking ``the fiscal years 2016 and 
     2017'' and inserting ``fiscal years 2018 through 2021''.
       (e) Reinstatement and Reauthorization of Grants to Combat 
     Child Sex Trafficking.--
       (1) Reinstatement of expired provision.--
       (A) In general.--Section 202 of the Trafficking Victims 
     Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 14044a) is 
     amended to read as such section read on March 6, 2017.
       (B) Conforming amendment.--Section 1241(b) of the Violence 
     Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (42 U.S.C. 14044a 
     note) is repealed.
       (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) 
     shall take effect as though enacted on March 6, 2017.
       (3) Reauthorization.--Section 202(i) of the Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005, as amended by 
     paragraph (1), is amended by striking ``2014 through 2017'' 
     and inserting ``2018 through 2021''.

     SEC. 302. ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF VICTIM ASSISTANCE.

       (a) Technical Amendments.--Subtitle D of title IV of the 
     Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 251 et seq.) is 
     amended--
       (1) in section 442--
       (A) by striking ``bureau'' each place such term appears, 
     except in subsection (a)(1), and inserting ``agency'';
       (B) by striking ``the Bureau of Border Security'' each 
     place such term appears and inserting ``U.S. Immigration and 
     Customs Enforcement'';
       (C) in the section heading, by striking ``bureau of border 
     security'' and inserting ``u.s. immigration and customs 
     enforcement'';
       (D) in subsection (a)--
       (i) in the heading, by striking ``of Bureau''; and
       (ii) in paragraph (1), by striking ``a bureau to be known 
     as the `Bureau of Border Security'.'' and inserting ``an 
     agency to be known as `U.S. Immigration and Customs 
     Enforcement'.'';
       (iii) in paragraph (3)(C), by striking ``the Bureau of'' 
     before ``Citizenship and Immigration Services'' and inserting 
     ``U.S.''; and
       (iv) in paragraph (4), by striking ``the Bureau.'' and 
     inserting ``the agency.''; and
       (E) in subsection (b)(2)--
       (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
     ``Bureau of Border Security'' and inserting ``U.S. 
     Immigration and Customs Enforcement''; and
       (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``the Bureau of'' 
     before ``Citizenship and Immigration Services'' and inserting 
     ``U.S.''; and
       (2) in section 443(2), by striking ``such bureau'' and 
     inserting ``such agency''.
       (b) Formalization of Office of Victim Assistance.--Section 
     442 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 252) is 
     amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(d) Office of Victim Assistance.--
       ``(1) In general.--There is established in Homeland 
     Security Investigations of U.S. Immigration and Customs 
     Enforcement the Office of Victim Assistance.
       ``(2) Purpose.--The purpose of the Office of Victim 
     Assistance shall be--
       ``(A) to provide national oversight to ensure that all 
     employees of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement 
     comply with all applicable Federal laws and policies 
     concerning victims' rights, access to information, advisement 
     of legal rights, just and fair treatment of victims, and 
     respect for victims' privacy and dignity;

[[Page S5182]]

       ``(B) to oversee and support specially trained victim 
     assistance personnel through guidance, training, travel, 
     technical assistance, and equipment to support Homeland 
     Security Investigations in domestic and international 
     investigations with a potential or identified victim or 
     witness.
       ``(3) Functions.--The Office of Victim Assistance shall--
       ``(A) fund and provide guidance, training, travel, 
     technical assistance, equipment, emergency funding for urgent 
     victim needs as identified, and coordination of victim 
     assistance personnel throughout Homeland Security 
     Investigations to provide potential and identified victims 
     and witnesses with access to the rights and services to which 
     they are entitled by law;
       ``(B) provide training throughout the U.S. Immigration and 
     Customs Enforcement on victim-related policies, issues, roles 
     of victim assistance personnel, and the victim-centered 
     approach in investigations;
       ``(C) provide victim assistance specialists to assess 
     victims' needs, provide referrals for comprehensive 
     assistance, and work with special agents to integrate victim 
     assistance considerations throughout the investigation and 
     judicial processes, as needed, by locating such specialists--
       ``(i) where there is a human trafficking task force in 
     which Homeland Security Investigations participates;
       ``(ii) where there is a task force targeting child sexual 
     exploitation in which Homeland Security Investigations 
     participates; and
       ``(iii) in each Homeland Security Investigations Special 
     Agent in Charge Office to address victims of other Federal 
     crimes, such as telemarketing fraud, which Homeland Security 
     Investigations investigates;
       ``(D) provide forensic interview specialists in each 
     Homeland Security Investigations Special Agent in Charge 
     Office to conduct victim-centered and legally sufficient fact 
     finding forensic interviews, both domestically and 
     internationally;
       ``(E) provide case consultation, operational planning, 
     coordination of services, and technical assistance and 
     training to special agents regarding all issues related to 
     victims and witnesses of all ages;
       ``(F) establish victim-related policies for Homeland 
     Security Investigations, including policies related to human 
     trafficking, child sexual exploitation, and other Federal 
     crimes investigated by Homeland Security Investigations; and
       ``(G) collaborate with other Federal, State, local, and 
     tribal governmental, nongovernmental, and nonprofit entities 
     regarding policy, outreach, and training activities.
       ``(4) Data collection.--The Office of Victim Assistance 
     shall collect and maintain data in a manner that protects the 
     confidentiality of the data and omits personally identifying 
     information and subject to other Federal laws regarding 
     victim confidentiality, including--
       ``(A) the sex and race of the victim;
       ``(B) each alleged crime that the victim was subjected to, 
     and in the case of human trafficking, each purpose for which 
     the victim was trafficked, such as commercial sex or forced 
     labor; and
       ``(C) whether the victim was an adult or a minor child.
       ``(5) Availability of data to congress.--The Office of 
     Victim Assistance shall make the data collected and 
     maintained under paragraph (4) available to the committees of 
     Congress set forth in section 105(d)(7) of the Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7103(d)(7)).''.
       (c) Reporting Requirement.--Section 105(d)(7) of the 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
     7103(d)(7)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (Q)(vii), by striking ``and'' at the 
     end;
       (2) in subparagraph (R), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(S) the data collected by Homeland Security 
     Investigations of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement 
     under section 442(d)(4) of the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002.''.
       (d) Funding.--The Director of the Office for Victims of 
     Crime of the Department of Justice may transfer amounts 
     described in subparagraph (C) of section 1402(d)(3) of the 
     Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10601(d)(3)), as 
     added by section 305 of this Act, to the Office of Victim 
     Assistance of the Department of Homeland Security for the 
     costs for providing direct victim assistance services, 
     including victim assistance specialists and forensic 
     interview specialists, by the Office of Victim Assistance.
       (e) Conforming Amendment.--The table of contents in section 
     1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-
     296; 116 Stat. 2135) is amended by striking the item relating 
     to section 442 and inserting the following:

``Sec. 442. Establishment of U.S. Immigration and Customs 
              Enforcement.''.

     SEC. 303. IMPLEMENTING A VICTIM-CENTERED APPROACH TO HUMAN 
                   TRAFFICKING.

       Section 107(b)(2) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act 
     of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7105(b)(2)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking the period at the 
     end and inserting ``; and''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(D) Priority.--In selecting recipients of grants under 
     this paragraph that are only available for law enforcement 
     operations or task forces, the Attorney General may give 
     priority to any applicant that files an attestation with the 
     Attorney General stating that--
       ``(i) the grant funds awarded under this paragraph--

       ``(I) will be used to assist in the prevention of severe 
     forms of trafficking in persons;
       ``(II) will be used to strengthen efforts to investigate 
     and prosecute those who knowingly benefit financially from 
     participation in a venture that has engaged in any act of 
     human trafficking;
       ``(III) will be used to take affirmative measures to avoid 
     arresting, charging, or prosecuting victims of human 
     trafficking for any offense that is the direct result of 
     their victimization; and
       ``(IV) will not be used to require a victim of human 
     trafficking to collaborate with law enforcement officers as a 
     condition of access to any shelter or restorative services; 
     and

       ``(ii) the applicant will provide dedicated resources for 
     anti-human trafficking law enforcement officers for a period 
     that is longer than the duration of the grant received under 
     this paragraph.''.

     SEC. 304. IMPROVING VICTIM SCREENING.

       (a) In General.--The Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 
     2000 (22 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.) is amended by inserting after 
     section 107A (22 U.S.C. 7105a) the following:

     ``SEC. 107B. IMPROVING DOMESTIC VICTIM SCREENING PROCEDURES.

       ``(a) Victim Screening Tools.--Not later than October 1, 
     2018, the Attorney General shall compile and disseminate, to 
     all grantees who are awarded grants to provide victims' 
     services under subsection (b) or (f) of section 107, 
     information about reliable and effective tools for the 
     identification of victims of human trafficking.
       ``(b) Use of Screening Procedures.--Beginning not later 
     than October 1, 2018, the Attorney General, in consultation 
     with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall 
     identify recommended practices for the screening of human 
     trafficking victims and shall encourage the use of such 
     practices by grantees receiving a grant to provide victim 
     services to youth under subsection (b) or (f) of section 
     107.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the 
     Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 
     (Public Law 106-386) is amended by inserting after the item 
     relating to section 107A the following:

``Sec. 107B. Improving domestic victim screening procedures.''.
       (c) Amendment to Title 18.--Section 1593A of title 18, 
     United States Code, is amended by striking ``section 1581(a), 
     1592, or 1595(a)'' and inserting ``this chapter''.

     SEC. 305. IMPROVING VICTIM SERVICES.

       Section 1402(d)(3) of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (42 
     U.S.C. 10601(d)(3)) is amended by adding at the end the 
     following:
       ``(C)(i) The Director may use not more than 1 percent of 
     the amount to be distributed from the Fund under this 
     paragraph in a particular fiscal year to provide and improve 
     direct assistance services for crime victims, including 
     victim assistance coordinators and specialists, in the 
     Federal criminal justice system (as described in section 3771 
     of title 18, United States Code, and section 503 of the 
     Victims' Rights and Restitution Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 
     10607)) by a department or agency of the Federal Government 
     other than the Department of Justice.
       ``(ii) Beginning in the first fiscal year beginning after 
     the date of enactment of this subparagraph and every fiscal 
     year thereafter, the Director shall solicit requests for 
     funding under clause (i).''.

    TITLE IV--IMPROVED DATA COLLECTION AND INTERAGENCY COORDINATION

     SEC. 401. PROMOTING DATA COLLECTION ON HUMAN TRAFFICKING.

       (a) Prevalence of Human Trafficking.--Not later than 1 year 
     after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General 
     shall submit to Congress a report on the efforts of the 
     National Institute of Justice to develop a methodology to 
     assess the prevalence of human trafficking in the United 
     States, including a timeline for completion of the 
     methodology.
       (b) Innocence Lost National Initiative.--Not later than 180 
     days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of 
     the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall submit to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on 
     Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on the 
     Judiciary and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives a report on the status of the Innocence Lost 
     National Initiative, which shall include, for each of the 
     last 5 fiscal years, information on--
       (1) the number of human traffickers who were arrested, 
     disaggregated by--
       (A) the number of individuals arrested for patronizing or 
     soliciting an adult;
       (B) the number of individuals arrested for recruitment, 
     harboring, maintaining, or obtaining an adult;
       (C) the number of individuals arrested for patronizing or 
     soliciting a minor; and
       (D) the number of individuals arrested for recruitment, 
     harboring, maintaining, or obtaining a minor;
       (2) the number of adults who were arrested on charges of 
     prostitution;
       (3) the number of minor victims who were identified;
       (4) the number of minor victims who were arrested and 
     formally petitioned by a juvenile court or criminally 
     charged; and
       (5) the placement of and social services provided to each 
     such minor victim as part of each State operation.
       (c) Availability of Reports.--The reports required under 
     subsections (a) and (b) shall be posted on the website of the 
     Department of Justice.

     SEC. 402. CRIME REPORTING.

       Section 7332(c) of the Uniform Federal Crime Reporting Act 
     of 1988 (28 U.S.C. 534 note) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``in the form of annual 
     Uniform Crime Reports for the United States'' and inserting 
     ``not less frequently than annually''; and

[[Page S5183]]

       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(4) Interagency coordination.--
       ``(A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     enactment of this paragraph, the Director of the Federal 
     Bureau of Investigation shall coordinate with the head of 
     each department or agency within the Federal Government that 
     is subject to the mandatory reporting requirements under 
     paragraph (2) for the purpose of ensuring successful 
     implementation of paragraph (2).
       ``(B) For report.--Not later than 6 months after the date 
     of enactment of this paragraph, the head of each department 
     or agency within the Federal Government that is subject to 
     the mandatory reporting requirements under paragraph (2) 
     shall provide the Director of the Federal Bureau of 
     Investigation such information as the Director determines is 
     necessary to complete the first report required under 
     paragraph (5).
       ``(5) Annual report by federal bureau of investigation.--
     Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this 
     paragraph, and annually thereafter, the Director of the 
     Federal Bureau of Investigation shall prepare and submit to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the 
     Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives a 
     report detailing the efforts of the departments and agencies 
     within the Federal Government to come into compliance with 
     paragraph (2). The report shall contain a list of all 
     departments and agencies within the Federal Government 
     subject to paragraph (2) and whether each department or 
     agency is in compliance with paragraph (2).''.

     SEC. 403. HUMAN TRAFFICKING ASSESSMENT.

       Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this 
     Act, and annually thereafter, the Executive Associate 
     Director of Homeland Security Investigations shall submit to 
     the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
     and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate, and the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on the 
     Judiciary of the House of Representatives a report on human 
     trafficking investigations undertaken by Homeland Security 
     Investigations that includes--
       (1) the number of confirmed human trafficking 
     investigations by category, including labor trafficking, sex 
     trafficking, and transnational and domestic human 
     trafficking;
       (2) the number of victims by category, including--
       (A) whether the victim is a victim of sex trafficking or a 
     victim of labor trafficking; and
       (B) whether the victim is a minor or an adult; and
       (3) an analysis of the data described in paragraphs (1) and 
     (2) and other data available to Homeland Security 
     Investigations that indicates any general human trafficking 
     or investigatory trends.

               TITLE V--TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

     SEC. 501. ENCOURAGING A VICTIM-CENTERED APPROACH TO TRAINING 
                   OF FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL.

       (a) Training Curriculum Improvements.--The Attorney 
     General, Secretary of Homeland Security, and Secretary of 
     Labor shall periodically, but not less frequently than once 
     every 2 years, implement improvements to the training 
     programs on human trafficking for employees of the Department 
     of Justice, Department of Homeland Security, and Department 
     of Labor, respectively, after consultation with survivors of 
     human trafficking, or trafficking victims service providers, 
     and Federal law enforcement agencies responsible for the 
     prevention, deterrence, and prosecution of offenses involving 
     human trafficking (such as individuals serving as, or who 
     have served as, investigators in a Federal agency and who 
     have expertise in identifying human trafficking victims and 
     investigating human trafficking cases).
       (b) Advanced Training Curriculum.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Attorney General and the Secretary 
     of Homeland Security shall develop an advanced training 
     curriculum, to supplement the basic curriculum for 
     investigative personnel of the Department of Justice and the 
     Department of Homeland Security, respectively, that--
       (A) emphasizes a multidisciplinary, collaborative effort by 
     law enforcement officers and victim service providers to 
     offer comprehensive services and resources for victims and a 
     broad range of investigation and prosecution options in 
     response to perpetrators;
       (B) provides guidance about the recruitment techniques 
     employed by human traffickers to clarify that an individual 
     who knowingly solicits or patronizes a commercial sex act 
     from a person who was a minor (consistent with section 
     1591(c) of title 18, United States Code) or was subject to 
     force, fraud, or coercion is guilty of an offense under 
     chapter 77 of title 18, United States Code, and is a party to 
     a human trafficking offense; and
       (C) explains that--
       (i) victims of sex or labor trafficking often engage in 
     criminal acts as a direct result of severe trafficking in 
     persons and such individuals are victims of a crime and 
     affirmative measures should be taken to avoid arresting, 
     charging, or prosecuting such individuals for any offense 
     that is the direct result of their victimization; and
       (ii) a comprehensive approach to eliminating human 
     trafficking should include demand reduction as a component.
       (2) Use of curriculum.--The Attorney General and the 
     Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide training using 
     the curriculum developed under paragraph (1) to--
       (A) all law enforcement officers employed by the Department 
     of Justice and the Department of Homeland Security, 
     respectively, who may be involved in the investigation of 
     human trafficking offenses; and
       (B) members of task forces that participate in the 
     investigation of human trafficking offenses.
       (c) Training Components.--Section 107(c)(4)(B) of the 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
     7105(c)(4)(B)) is amended--
       (1) in clause (ii), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (2) in clause (iii), by striking the period at the end and 
     inserting ``; and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(iv) a discussion clarifying that an individual who 
     knowingly solicits or patronizes a commercial sex act from a 
     person who was a minor (consistent with section 1591(c) of 
     title 18, United States Code) or was subject to force, fraud, 
     or coercion is guilty of an offense under chapter 77 of title 
     18, United States Code, and is a party to a human trafficking 
     offense.''.

     SEC. 502. VICTIM SCREENING TRAINING.

       Section 114 of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act 
     of 2015 (42 U.S.C. 14044g) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (c)(1)(A)--
       (A) in clause (i), by striking the ``and'' at the end;
       (B) in clause (ii), by striking the period at the end and 
     inserting a semicolon; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(iii) individually screening all adults and children who 
     are suspected of engaging in commercial sex acts or who are 
     subject to labor exploitation that may be in violation of 
     child labor laws to determine whether each individual 
     screened is a victim of human trafficking; and
       ``(iv) how--

       ``(I) victims of sex or labor trafficking often engage in 
     criminal acts as a direct result of severe trafficking in 
     persons; and
       ``(II) such individuals are victims of a crime and 
     affirmative measures should be taken to avoid arresting, 
     charging, or prosecuting such individuals for any offense 
     that is the direct result of their victimization.''; and

       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(f) Department of Justice Victim Screening Protocol.--
       ``(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
     of enactment of this subsection, the Attorney General shall 
     issue a screening protocol for use during all anti-
     trafficking law enforcement operations in which the 
     Department of Justice is involved.
       ``(2) Requirements.--The protocol required to be issued 
     under paragraph (1) shall--
       ``(A) require the individual screening of all adults and 
     children who are suspected of engaging in commercial sex acts 
     or who are subject to labor exploitation that may be in 
     violation of child labor laws to determine whether each 
     individual screened is a victim of human trafficking;
       ``(B) require affirmative measures to avoid arresting, 
     charging, or prosecuting human trafficking victims for any 
     offense that is the direct result of their victimization;
       ``(C) require all Federal law enforcement officers and 
     relevant department personnel who participate in human 
     trafficking investigations to receive training on enforcement 
     of the protocol;
       ``(D) be developed in consultation with State and local law 
     enforcement agencies, the Department of Health and Human 
     Services, survivors of human trafficking, and nongovernmental 
     organizations that specialize in the identification, 
     prevention, and restoration of victims of human trafficking; 
     and
       ``(E) include--
       ``(i) procedures and practices to ensure that the screening 
     process minimizes trauma or revictimization of the person 
     being screened; and
       ``(ii) guidelines on assisting victims of human trafficking 
     in identifying and receiving victim services.''.

     SEC. 503. JUDICIAL TRAINING.

       Section 223(b)(2) of the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 
     (42 U.S.C. 13023(b)(2)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (B) by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (2) in subparagraph (C) by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(D) procedures for improving the judicial response to 
     children who are vulnerable to human trafficking, to the 
     extent an appropriate screening tool exists.''.

     SEC. 504. TRAINING OF TRIBAL LAW ENFORCEMENT AND 
                   PROSECUTORIAL PERSONNEL.

       The Attorney General, in consultation with the Director of 
     the Office of Tribal Justice, shall carry out a program under 
     which tribal law enforcement officials may receive technical 
     assistance and training to pursue a victim-centered approach 
     to investigating and prosecuting severe forms of trafficking 
     in persons (as defined in section 103 of the Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102)).

                        TITLE VI--ACCOUNTABILITY

     SEC. 601. GRANT ACCOUNTABILITY.

       Section 1236 of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization 
     Act of 2013 (22 U.S.C. 7113) is amended--
       (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
     ``All grants'' and inserting the following:
       ``(a) In General.--For fiscal year 2013, and each fiscal 
     year thereafter, all grants''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following
       ``(b) Application to Additional Grants.--For purposes of 
     subsection (a), for fiscal year 2018, and each fiscal year 
     thereafter, the term `grant awarded by the Attorney General 
     under this title or an Act amended by this title' includes a 
     grant under any of the following:
       ``(1) Section 223 of the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 
     (42 U.S.C. 13023).
       ``(2) The program under section 504 of the Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Act of 2017.''.

[[Page S5184]]

  


  TITLE VII--PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP ADVISORY COUNCIL TO END HUMAN 
                              TRAFFICKING

     SEC. 701. SHORT TITLE.

       This title may be cited as the ``Public-Private Partnership 
     Advisory Council to End Human Trafficking Act''.

     SEC. 702. DEFINITIONS.

       In this Act:
       (1) Council.--The term ``Council'' means the Public-Private 
     Partnership Advisory Council to End Human Trafficking
       (2) Group.--The term ``Group'' means the Senior Policy 
     Operating Group established under section 105(g) of the 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
     7103(g)).
       (3) Task force.--The term ``Task Force'' means the 
     President's Interagency Task Force to Monitor and Combat 
     Trafficking established under section 105(a) of the 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
     7103(a)).

     SEC. 703. PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP ADVISORY COUNCIL TO END 
                   HUMAN TRAFFICKING.

       (a) Establishment.--There is established the Public-Private 
     Partnership Advisory Council to End Human Trafficking, which 
     shall provide advice and recommendations to the Group and the 
     Task Force.
       (b) Membership.--
       (1) Composition.--The Council shall be composed of not 
     fewer than 8 and not more than 14 representatives of 
     nongovernmental organizations, academia, and nonprofit groups 
     who have significant knowledge and experience in human 
     trafficking prevention and eradication, identification of 
     human trafficking, and comprehensive services for human 
     trafficking victims.
       (2) Representation of nonprofit and nongovernmental 
     organizations.--To the extent practicable, members of the 
     Council shall be representatives of nonprofit groups, 
     academia, and nongovernmental organizations who accurately 
     reflect the diverse backgrounds related to work in the 
     prevention, eradication, and identification of human 
     trafficking and comprehensive services for human trafficking 
     victims in the United States and internationally.
       (3) Appointment.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the President shall appoint--
       (A) 1 member of the Council, after consultation with the 
     President Pro Tempore of the Senate;
       (B) 1 member of the Council, after consultation with the 
     Minority Leader of the Senate;
       (C) 1 member of the Council, after consultation with the 
     Speaker of the House of Representatives;
       (D) 1 member of the Council, after consultation with the 
     Minority Leader of the House of Representatives; and
       (E) the remaining members of the Council.
       (4) Term; reappointment.--Each member of the Council--
       (A) shall serve for a term of 2 years; and
       (B) may be reappointed by the President to serve 1 
     additional 2-year term.
       (5) Employee status.--Members of the Council--
       (A) shall not be considered employees of the Federal 
     Government for any purpose; and
       (B) shall not receive compensation.
       (c) Functions.--The Council shall--
       (1) be a nongovernmental advisory body to the Group;
       (2) meet, at its own discretion or at the request of the 
     Group, not less frequently than annually, to review Federal 
     Government policy and programs intended to combat human 
     trafficking, including programs relating to the provision of 
     services for victims;
       (3) serve as a point of contact, with the United States 
     Advisory Council on Human Trafficking, for Federal agencies 
     reaching out to human trafficking nonprofit groups and 
     nongovernmental organizations for input on programming and 
     policies relating to human trafficking in the United States;
       (4) formulate assessments and recommendations to ensure 
     that the policy and programming efforts of the Federal 
     Government conform, to the extent practicable, to the best 
     practices in the field of human trafficking prevention and 
     rehabilitation and aftercare of human trafficking victims; 
     and
       (5) meet with the Group not less frequently than annually, 
     and not later than 45 days before a meeting with the Task 
     Force, to formally present the findings and recommendations 
     of the Council.
       (d) Nonapplicability of FACA.--The Council shall not be 
     subject to the requirements under the Federal Advisory 
     Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).

     SEC. 704. REPORTS.

       Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act and annually thereafter until the date described in 
     section 705, the Council, in coordination with the United 
     States Advisory Council on Human Trafficking, shall submit a 
     report containing the findings derived from the reviews 
     conducted pursuant to section 3(c)(2) to--
       (1) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
       (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;
       (3) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs of the Senate;
       (4) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate;
       (5) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives;
       (6) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives;
       (7) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
     Representatives;
       (8) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
     Representatives;
       (9) the chair of the Task Force; and
       (10) the members of the Group.

     SEC. 705. SUNSET.

       The Council shall terminate on September 30, 2020.
  Mr. McCONNELL. I ask unanimous consent that the committee-reported 
substitute amendment be considered; that the Grassley amendment at the 
desk be considered and agreed to; that the committee-reported 
substitute amendment, as amended, be agreed to; that the bill, as 
amended, be considered read a third time and passed, and the motion to 
reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The amendment (No. 937) was agreed to, as follows:

                     (Purpose: To improve the bill)

       Beginning on page 69, strike line 23 and all that follows 
     through page 70, line 6.
       On page 70, line 7, strike ``(e)'' and insert ``(d)''.
       On page 73, strike line 22 and insert the following:
     requests for funding under clause (i).
       ``(iii) Before amounts are distributed from the Fund to a 
     department or agency for the purpose described in clause (i), 
     the Director shall evaluate whether the activities proposed 
     to be carried out by such department or agency would 
     duplicate services that are provided by another department or 
     agency of the Federal Government (including the Department of 
     Justice) using amounts from the Fund, and impose measures to 
     avoid such duplication to the greatest extent possible.''.
       On page 79, strike lines 18 through 23 and insert the 
     following:
       (A) emphasizes a multidisciplinary, collaborative effort by 
     law enforcement officers who provide a broad range of 
     investigation and prosecution options in response to 
     perpetrators, and victim service providers, who offer 
     services and resources for victims;
       On page 87, line 17, strike ``comprehensive''.
       On page 88, line 1, strike ``comprehensive''.
  The committee-reported amendment in the nature of a substitute, as 
amended, was agreed to.
  The bill (S. 1312), as amended, was ordered to be engrossed for a 
third reading, was read the third time, and passed, as follows:

                                S. 1312

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

       (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the 
     ``Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2017''.
       (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act 
     is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings; sense of Congress.

     TITLE I--FREDERICK DOUGLASS TRAFFICKING PREVENTION ACT OF 2017

Sec. 101. Training of school resource officers to recognize and respond 
              to signs of human trafficking.
Sec. 102. Training for school personnel.

               TITLE II--JUSTICE FOR TRAFFICKING VICTIMS

Sec. 201. Injunctive relief.
Sec. 202. Improving support for missing and exploited children.
Sec. 203. Forensic and investigative assistance.

             TITLE III--SERVICES FOR TRAFFICKING SURVIVORS

Sec. 301. Extension of anti-trafficking grant programs.
Sec. 302. Establishment of Office of Victim Assistance.
Sec. 303. Implementing a victim-centered approach to human trafficking.
Sec. 304. Improving victim screening.
Sec. 305. Improving victim services.

    TITLE IV--IMPROVED DATA COLLECTION AND INTERAGENCY COORDINATION

Sec. 401. Promoting data collection on human trafficking.
Sec. 402. Crime reporting.
Sec. 403. Human trafficking assessment.

               TITLE V--TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

Sec. 501. Encouraging a victim-centered approach to training of Federal 
              law enforcement personnel.
Sec. 502. Victim screening training.
Sec. 503. Judicial training.
Sec. 504. Training of tribal law enforcement and prosecutorial 
              personnel.

                        TITLE VI--ACCOUNTABILITY

Sec. 601. Grant accountability.

  TITLE VII--PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP ADVISORY COUNCIL TO END HUMAN 
                              TRAFFICKING

Sec. 701. Short title.
Sec. 702. Definitions.
Sec. 703. Public-Private Partnership Advisory Council to End Human 
              Trafficking.
Sec. 704. Reports.
Sec. 705. Sunset.

     SEC. 2. FINDINGS; SENSE OF CONGRESS.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) The crime of human trafficking involves the 
     exploitation of adults through force, fraud, or coercion, and 
     children for

[[Page S5185]]

     such purposes as forced labor or commercial sex.
       (2) Reliable data on the prevalence of human trafficking in 
     the United States is not available, but cases have been 
     reported in all 50 States, the territories of the United 
     States, and the District of Columbia.
       (3) Each year, thousands of individuals may be trafficked 
     within the United States, according to recent estimates from 
     victim advocates.
       (4) More accurate and comprehensive data on the prevalence 
     of human trafficking is needed to properly combat this form 
     of modern slavery in the United States.
       (5) Victims of human trafficking can include men, women, 
     and children who are diverse with respect to race, ethnicity, 
     and nationality, among other factors.
       (6) Since the enactment of the Trafficking Victims 
     Protection Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-386; 114 Stat. 1464), 
     human traffickers have launched increasingly sophisticated 
     schemes to increase the scope of their activities and the 
     number of their victims.
       (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     Congress supports additional efforts to raise awareness of 
     and oppose human trafficking.

     TITLE I--FREDERICK DOUGLASS TRAFFICKING PREVENTION ACT OF 2017

     SEC. 101. TRAINING OF SCHOOL RESOURCE OFFICERS TO RECOGNIZE 
                   AND RESPOND TO SIGNS OF HUMAN TRAFFICKING.

       Section 1701(b)(12) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control 
     and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796dd(b)(12)) is 
     amended by inserting ``, including the training of school 
     resource officers in the prevention of human trafficking 
     offenses'' before the semicolon at the end.

     SEC. 102. TRAINING FOR SCHOOL PERSONNEL.

       Section 41201(f) of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 
     (42 U.S.C. 14043c(f)) is amended by striking ``2014 through 
     2018'' and inserting ``2019 through 2022''.

               TITLE II--JUSTICE FOR TRAFFICKING VICTIMS

     SEC. 201. INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 77 of title 18, United States 
     Code, is amended by inserting after section 1595 the 
     following:

     ``Sec. 1595A. Civil injunctions

       ``(a) In General.--Whenever it shall appear that any person 
     is engaged or is about to engage in any act that constitutes 
     or will constitute a violation of this chapter, chapter 110, 
     or chapter 117, or a conspiracy under section 371 to commit a 
     violation of this chapter, chapter 110, or chapter 117, the 
     Attorney General may bring a civil action in a district court 
     of the United States seeking an order to enjoin such act.
       ``(b) Action by Court.--The court shall proceed as soon as 
     practicable to the hearing and determination of a civil 
     action brought under subsection (a), and may, at any time 
     before final determination, enter such a restraining order or 
     prohibition, or take such other action, as is warranted to 
     prevent a continuing and substantial injury to the United 
     States or to any person or class of persons for whose 
     protection the civil action is brought.
       ``(c) Procedure.--
       ``(1) In general.--A proceeding under this section shall be 
     governed by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, except 
     that, if an indictment has been returned against the 
     respondent, discovery shall be governed by the Federal Rules 
     of Criminal Procedure.
       ``(2) Sealed proceedings.--If a civil action is brought 
     under subsection (a) before an indictment is returned against 
     the respondent or while an indictment against the respondent 
     is under seal--
       ``(A) the court shall place the civil action under seal; 
     and
       ``(B) when the indictment is unsealed, the court shall 
     unseal the civil action unless good cause exists to keep the 
     civil action under seal.
       ``(d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall 
     be construed or applied so as to abridge the exercise of 
     rights guaranteed under the First Amendment to the 
     Constitution of the United States.''.
       (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of 
     sections for chapter 77 of title 18, United States Code, is 
     amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1595 
     the following:

``1595A. Civil injunctions.''.

     SEC. 202. IMPROVING SUPPORT FOR MISSING AND EXPLOITED 
                   CHILDREN.

       (a) Findings.--Section 402 of the Missing Children's 
     Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5771) is amended--
       (1) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
       ``(1) each year tens of thousands of children run away, or 
     are abducted or removed, from the control of a parent having 
     legal custody without the consent of that parent, under 
     circumstances which immediately place the child in grave 
     danger;'';
       (2) by striking paragraphs (4) and (5);
       (3) in paragraph (6) by inserting ``, including child sex 
     trafficking and sextortion'' after ``exploitation'';
       (4) in paragraph (8) by adding ``and'' at the end;
       (5) by striking paragraph (9);
       (6) by amending paragraph (10) to read as follows:
       ``(10) a key component of such programs is the National 
     Center for Missing and Exploited Children that--
       ``(A) serves as a nonprofit, national resource center and 
     clearinghouse to provide assistance to victims, families, 
     child-serving professionals, and the general public;
       ``(B) works with the Department of Justice, the Federal 
     Bureau of Investigation, the United States Marshals Service, 
     the Department of the Treasury, the Department of State, U.S. 
     Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the United States Secret 
     Service, the United States Postal Inspection Service, other 
     agencies, and nongovernmental organizations in the effort to 
     find missing children and to prevent child victimization; and
       ``(C) coordinates with each of the missing children 
     clearinghouses operated by the 50 States, the District of 
     Columbia, Puerto Rico, and international organizations to 
     transmit images and information regarding missing and 
     exploited children to law enforcement agencies, 
     nongovernmental organizations, and corporate partners across 
     the United States and around the world instantly.''; and
       (7) by redesignating paragraphs (6), (7), (8), and (10), as 
     amended by this subsection, as paragraphs (4), (5), (6), and 
     (7), respectively.
       (b) Definitions.--Section 403 of the Missing Children's 
     Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5772) is amended--
       (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
       ``(1) the term `missing child' means any individual less 
     than 18 years of age whose whereabouts are unknown to such 
     individual's parent;'';
       (2) in paragraph (2) by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (3) in paragraph (3) by striking the period at the end and 
     inserting ``; and''; and
       (4) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(4) the term `parent' includes a legal guardian or other 
     individual who may lawfully exercise parental rights with 
     respect to the child.''.
       (c) Duties and Functions of the Administrator.--Section 404 
     of the Missing Children's Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5773) is 
     amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) in paragraph (3) by striking ``telephone line'' and 
     inserting ``hotline''; and
       (B) in paragraph (6)(E)--
       (i) by striking ``telephone line'' and inserting 
     ``hotline'';
       (ii) by striking ``(b)(1)(A) and'' and inserting 
     ``(b)(1)(A),''; and
       (iii) by inserting ``, and the number and types of reports 
     to the tipline established under subsection (b)(1)(K)(i)'' 
     before the semicolon at the end;
       (2) in subsection (b)(1)--
       (A) in subparagraph (A)--
       (i) by striking ``telephone line'' each place it appears 
     and inserting ``hotline''; and
       (ii) by striking ``legal custodian'' and inserting 
     ``parent'';
       (B) in subparagraph (C)--
       (i) in clause (i)--

       (I) by striking ``restaurant'' and inserting ``food''; and
       (II) by striking ``and'' at the end;

       (ii) in clause (ii) by adding ``and'' at the end; and
       (iii) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(iii) innovative and model programs, services, and 
     legislation that benefit missing and exploited children;'';
       (C) by striking subparagraphs (E), (F), and (G);
       (D) by amending subparagraph (H) to read as follows:
       ``(H) provide technical assistance and training to 
     families, law enforcement agencies, State and local 
     governments, elements of the criminal justice system, 
     nongovernmental agencies, local educational agencies, and the 
     general public--
       ``(i) in the prevention, investigation, prosecution, and 
     treatment of cases involving missing and exploited children;
       ``(ii) to respond to foster children missing from the State 
     child welfare system in coordination with child welfare 
     agencies and courts handling juvenile justice and dependency 
     matters; and
       ``(iii) in the identification, location, and recovery of 
     victims of, and children at risk for, child sex 
     trafficking;'';
       (E) by amending subparagraphs (I), (J), and (K) to read as 
     follows:
       ``(I) provide assistance to families, law enforcement 
     agencies, State and local governments, nongovernmental 
     agencies, child-serving professionals, and other individuals 
     involved in the location and recovery of missing and abducted 
     children nationally and, in cooperation with the Department 
     of State, internationally;
       ``(J) provide support and technical assistance to child-
     serving professionals involved in helping to recover missing 
     and exploited children by searching public records databases 
     to help in the identification, location, and recovery of such 
     children, and help in the location and identification of 
     potential abductors and offenders;
       ``(K) provide forensic and direct on-site technical 
     assistance and consultation to families, law enforcement 
     agencies, child-serving professionals, and nongovernmental 
     organizations in child abduction and exploitation cases, 
     including facial reconstruction of skeletal remains and 
     similar techniques to assist in the identification of 
     unidentified deceased children;'';
       (F) by striking subparagraphs (L) and (M);
       (G) by amending subparagraph (N) to read as follows:

[[Page S5186]]

       ``(N) provide training, technical assistance, and 
     information to nongovernmental organizations relating to non-
     compliant sex offenders and to law enforcement agencies in 
     identifying and locating such individuals;'';
       (H) by striking subparagraph (P);
       (I) by amending subparagraph (Q) to read as follows:
       ``(Q) work with families, law enforcement agencies, 
     electronic service providers, electronic payment service 
     providers, technology companies, nongovernmental 
     organizations, and others on methods to reduce the existence 
     and distribution of online images and videos of sexually 
     exploited children--
       ``(i) by operating a tipline to--

       ``(I) provide to individuals and electronic service 
     providers an effective means of reporting Internet-related 
     and other instances of child sexual exploitation in the areas 
     of--

       ``(aa) possession, manufacture, and distribution of child 
     pornography;
       ``(bb) online enticement of children for sexual acts;
       ``(cc) child sex trafficking;
       ``(dd) sex tourism involving children;
       ``(ee) extra familial child sexual molestation;
       ``(ff) unsolicited obscene material sent to a child;
       ``(gg) misleading domain names; and
       ``(hh) misleading words or digital images on the Internet; 
     and

       ``(II) make reports received through the tipline available 
     to the appropriate law enforcement agency for its review and 
     potential investigation;

       ``(ii) by operating a child victim identification program 
     to assist law enforcement agencies in identifying victims of 
     child pornography and other sexual crimes to support the 
     recovery of children from sexually exploitative situations; 
     and
       ``(iii) by utilizing emerging technologies to provide 
     additional outreach and educational materials to parents and 
     families;'';
       (J) by striking subparagraph (R);
       (K) by amending subparagraphs (S) and (T) to read as 
     follows:
       ``(S) develop and disseminate programs and information to 
     families, child-serving professionals, law enforcement 
     agencies, State and local governments, nongovernmental 
     organizations, schools, local educational agencies, child-
     serving organizations, and the general public on--
       ``(i) the prevention of child abduction and sexual 
     exploitation;
       ``(ii) Internet safety, including tips for social media and 
     cyberbullying; and
       ``(iii) sexting and sextortion; and
       ``(T) provide technical assistance and training to local 
     educational agencies, schools, State and local law 
     enforcement agencies, individuals, and other nongovernmental 
     organizations that assist with finding missing and abducted 
     children in identifying and recovering such children;''; and
       (L) by redesignating subparagraphs (H), (I), (J), (K), (N), 
     (O), (Q), (S), (T), (U), and (V), as amended by this 
     subsection, as subparagraphs (E) through (O), respectively.
       (d) Grants.--Section 405 of the Missing Children's 
     Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5775) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) in paragraph (7) by striking ``(as defined in section 
     403(1)(A))''; and
       (B) in paragraph (8)--
       (i) by striking ``legal custodians'' and inserting 
     ``parents''; and
       (ii) by striking ``custodians' '' and inserting ``parents' 
     ''; and
       (2) in subsection (b)(1)(A) by striking ``legal 
     custodians'' and inserting ``parents''.
       (e) Reporting.--The Missing Children's Assistance Act (42 
     U.S.C. 5771 et seq.) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating sections 407 and 408 as section 408 
     and 409, respectively; and
       (2) by inserting after section 406 the following:

     ``SEC. 407. REPORTING.

       ``(a) Required Reporting.--As a condition of receiving 
     funds under section 404(b), the grant recipient shall, based 
     solely on reports received by the grantee and not involving 
     any data collection by the grantee other than those reports, 
     annually provide to the Administrator and make available to 
     the general public, as appropriate--
       ``(1) the number of children nationwide who are reported to 
     the grantee as missing;
       ``(2) the number of children nationwide who are reported to 
     the grantee as victims of non-family abductions;
       ``(3) the number of children nationwide who are reported to 
     the grantee as victims of family abductions; and
       ``(4) the number of missing children recovered nationwide 
     whose recovery was reported to the grantee.
       ``(b) Incidence of Attempted Child Abductions.--As a 
     condition of receiving funds under section 404(b), the grant 
     recipient shall--
       ``(1) track the incidence of attempted child abductions in 
     order to identify links and patterns;
       ``(2) provide such information to law enforcement agencies; 
     and
       ``(3) make such information available to the general 
     public, as appropriate.''.

     SEC. 203. FORENSIC AND INVESTIGATIVE ASSISTANCE.

       Section 3056(f) of title 18, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) by inserting ``in conjunction with an investigation'' 
     after ``local law enforcement agency''; and
       (2) by striking ``in support of any investigation involving 
     missing or exploited children''.

             TITLE III--SERVICES FOR TRAFFICKING SURVIVORS

     SEC. 301. EXTENSION OF ANTI-TRAFFICKING GRANT PROGRAMS.

       (a) Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000.--The 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7101 et 
     seq.) is amended--
       (1) in section 112A(b)(4) (22 U.S.C. 7109a(b)(4)), by 
     striking ``2014 through 2017'' and inserting ``2018 through 
     2021'';
       (2) in section 113 (22 U.S.C. 7110)--
       (A) in subsection (d)--
       (i) in the paragraph (1), by striking ``$11,000,000 for 
     each of fiscal years 2014 through 2017'' and inserting 
     ``$45,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2021''; 
     and
       (ii) in paragraph (3), by striking ``2014 through 2017'' 
     and inserting ``2018 through 2021''; and
       (B) in subsection (e)--
       (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``2014 through 2017'' and 
     inserting ``2018 through 2021''; and
       (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``2014 through 2017'' 
     and inserting ``2018 through 2021''; and
       (C) in subsection (f), by striking ``2014 through 2017'' 
     and inserting ``2018 through 2021''.
       (b) Annual Trafficking Conference.--Section 201(c)(2) of 
     the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 
     2005 (42 U.S.C. 14044(c)(2)) is amended by striking ``2017'' 
     and inserting ``2021''.
       (c) Grants to State and Local Law Enforcement for Anti-
     trafficking Programs.--Section 204(e) of the Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
     14044c(e)) is amended by striking ``2017'' and inserting 
     ``2021''.
       (d) Child Advocates for Unaccompanied Minors.--Section 
     235(c)(6)(F) of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims 
     Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 (8 U.S.C. 
     1232(c)(6)(F)) is amended--
       (1) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking 
     ``Secretary and Human Services'' and inserting ``Secretary of 
     Health and Human Services''; and
       (2) in clause (ii), by striking ``the fiscal years 2016 and 
     2017'' and inserting ``fiscal years 2018 through 2021''.
       (e) Reinstatement and Reauthorization of Grants To Combat 
     Child Sex Trafficking.--
       (1) Reinstatement of expired provision.--
       (A) In general.--Section 202 of the Trafficking Victims 
     Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 14044a) is 
     amended to read as such section read on March 6, 2017.
       (B) Conforming amendment.--Section 1241(b) of the Violence 
     Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (42 U.S.C. 14044a 
     note) is repealed.
       (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) 
     shall take effect as though enacted on March 6, 2017.
       (3) Reauthorization.--Section 202(i) of the Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005, as amended by 
     paragraph (1), is amended by striking ``2014 through 2017'' 
     and inserting ``2018 through 2021''.

     SEC. 302. ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF VICTIM ASSISTANCE.

       (a) Technical Amendments.--Subtitle D of title IV of the 
     Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 251 et seq.) is 
     amended--
       (1) in section 442--
       (A) by striking ``bureau'' each place such term appears, 
     except in subsection (a)(1), and inserting ``agency'';
       (B) by striking ``the Bureau of Border Security'' each 
     place such term appears and inserting ``U.S. Immigration and 
     Customs Enforcement'';
       (C) in the section heading, by striking ``bureau of border 
     security'' and inserting ``u.s. immigration and customs 
     enforcement'';
       (D) in subsection (a)--
       (i) in the heading, by striking ``of Bureau''; and
       (ii) in paragraph (1), by striking ``a bureau to be known 
     as the `Bureau of Border Security'.'' and inserting ``an 
     agency to be known as `U.S. Immigration and Customs 
     Enforcement'.'';
       (iii) in paragraph (3)(C), by striking ``the Bureau of'' 
     before ``Citizenship and Immigration Services'' and inserting 
     ``U.S.''; and
       (iv) in paragraph (4), by striking ``the Bureau.'' and 
     inserting ``the agency.''; and
       (E) in subsection (b)(2)--
       (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
     ``Bureau of Border Security'' and inserting ``U.S. 
     Immigration and Customs Enforcement''; and
       (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``the Bureau of'' 
     before ``Citizenship and Immigration Services'' and inserting 
     ``U.S.''; and
       (2) in section 443(2), by striking ``such bureau'' and 
     inserting ``such agency''.
       (b) Formalization of Office of Victim Assistance.--Section 
     442 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 252) is 
     amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(d) Office of Victim Assistance.--
       ``(1) In general.--There is established in Homeland 
     Security Investigations of U.S. Immigration and Customs 
     Enforcement the Office of Victim Assistance.
       ``(2) Purpose.--The purpose of the Office of Victim 
     Assistance shall be--
       ``(A) to provide national oversight to ensure that all 
     employees of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement 
     comply with all applicable Federal laws and policies 
     concerning victims' rights, access to information, advisement 
     of legal rights, just and fair

[[Page S5187]]

     treatment of victims, and respect for victims' privacy and 
     dignity;
       ``(B) to oversee and support specially trained victim 
     assistance personnel through guidance, training, travel, 
     technical assistance, and equipment to support Homeland 
     Security Investigations in domestic and international 
     investigations with a potential or identified victim or 
     witness.
       ``(3) Functions.--The Office of Victim Assistance shall--
       ``(A) fund and provide guidance, training, travel, 
     technical assistance, equipment, emergency funding for urgent 
     victim needs as identified, and coordination of victim 
     assistance personnel throughout Homeland Security 
     Investigations to provide potential and identified victims 
     and witnesses with access to the rights and services to which 
     they are entitled by law;
       ``(B) provide training throughout the U.S. Immigration and 
     Customs Enforcement on victim-related policies, issues, roles 
     of victim assistance personnel, and the victim-centered 
     approach in investigations;
       ``(C) provide victim assistance specialists to assess 
     victims' needs, provide referrals for comprehensive 
     assistance, and work with special agents to integrate victim 
     assistance considerations throughout the investigation and 
     judicial processes, as needed, by locating such specialists--
       ``(i) where there is a human trafficking task force in 
     which Homeland Security Investigations participates;
       ``(ii) where there is a task force targeting child sexual 
     exploitation in which Homeland Security Investigations 
     participates; and
       ``(iii) in each Homeland Security Investigations Special 
     Agent in Charge Office to address victims of other Federal 
     crimes, such as telemarketing fraud, which Homeland Security 
     Investigations investigates;
       ``(D) provide forensic interview specialists in each 
     Homeland Security Investigations Special Agent in Charge 
     Office to conduct victim-centered and legally sufficient fact 
     finding forensic interviews, both domestically and 
     internationally;
       ``(E) provide case consultation, operational planning, 
     coordination of services, and technical assistance and 
     training to special agents regarding all issues related to 
     victims and witnesses of all ages;
       ``(F) establish victim-related policies for Homeland 
     Security Investigations, including policies related to human 
     trafficking, child sexual exploitation, and other Federal 
     crimes investigated by Homeland Security Investigations; and
       ``(G) collaborate with other Federal, State, local, and 
     tribal governmental, nongovernmental, and nonprofit entities 
     regarding policy, outreach, and training activities.
       ``(4) Data collection.--The Office of Victim Assistance 
     shall collect and maintain data in a manner that protects the 
     confidentiality of the data and omits personally identifying 
     information and subject to other Federal laws regarding 
     victim confidentiality, including--
       ``(A) the sex and race of the victim;
       ``(B) each alleged crime that the victim was subjected to, 
     and in the case of human trafficking, each purpose for which 
     the victim was trafficked, such as commercial sex or forced 
     labor; and
       ``(C) whether the victim was an adult or a minor child.
       ``(5) Availability of data to congress.--The Office of 
     Victim Assistance shall make the data collected and 
     maintained under paragraph (4) available to the committees of 
     Congress set forth in section 105(d)(7) of the Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7103(d)(7)).''.
       (c) Reporting Requirement.--Section 105(d)(7) of the 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
     7103(d)(7)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (Q)(vii), by striking ``and'' at the 
     end;
       (2) in subparagraph (R), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(S) the data collected by Homeland Security 
     Investigations of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement 
     under section 442(d)(4) of the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002.''.
       (d) Conforming Amendment.--The table of contents in section 
     1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-
     296; 116 Stat. 2135) is amended by striking the item relating 
     to section 442 and inserting the following:

``Sec. 442. Establishment of U.S. Immigration and Customs 
              Enforcement.''.

     SEC. 303. IMPLEMENTING A VICTIM-CENTERED APPROACH TO HUMAN 
                   TRAFFICKING.

       Section 107(b)(2) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act 
     of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7105(b)(2)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking the period at the 
     end and inserting ``; and''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(D) Priority.--In selecting recipients of grants under 
     this paragraph that are only available for law enforcement 
     operations or task forces, the Attorney General may give 
     priority to any applicant that files an attestation with the 
     Attorney General stating that--
       ``(i) the grant funds awarded under this paragraph--

       ``(I) will be used to assist in the prevention of severe 
     forms of trafficking in persons;
       ``(II) will be used to strengthen efforts to investigate 
     and prosecute those who knowingly benefit financially from 
     participation in a venture that has engaged in any act of 
     human trafficking;
       ``(III) will be used to take affirmative measures to avoid 
     arresting, charging, or prosecuting victims of human 
     trafficking for any offense that is the direct result of 
     their victimization; and
       ``(IV) will not be used to require a victim of human 
     trafficking to collaborate with law enforcement officers as a 
     condition of access to any shelter or restorative services; 
     and

       ``(ii) the applicant will provide dedicated resources for 
     anti-human trafficking law enforcement officers for a period 
     that is longer than the duration of the grant received under 
     this paragraph.''.

     SEC. 304. IMPROVING VICTIM SCREENING.

       (a) In General.--The Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 
     2000 (22 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.) is amended by inserting after 
     section 107A (22 U.S.C. 7105a) the following:

     ``SEC. 107B. IMPROVING DOMESTIC VICTIM SCREENING PROCEDURES.

       ``(a) Victim Screening Tools.--Not later than October 1, 
     2018, the Attorney General shall compile and disseminate, to 
     all grantees who are awarded grants to provide victims' 
     services under subsection (b) or (f) of section 107, 
     information about reliable and effective tools for the 
     identification of victims of human trafficking.
       ``(b) Use of Screening Procedures.--Beginning not later 
     than October 1, 2018, the Attorney General, in consultation 
     with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall 
     identify recommended practices for the screening of human 
     trafficking victims and shall encourage the use of such 
     practices by grantees receiving a grant to provide victim 
     services to youth under subsection (b) or (f) of section 
     107.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the 
     Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 
     (Public Law 106-386) is amended by inserting after the item 
     relating to section 107A the following:

``Sec. 107B. Improving domestic victim screening procedures.''.
       (c) Amendment to Title 18.--Section 1593A of title 18, 
     United States Code, is amended by striking ``section 1581(a), 
     1592, or 1595(a)'' and inserting ``this chapter''.

     SEC. 305. IMPROVING VICTIM SERVICES.

       Section 1402(d)(3) of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (42 
     U.S.C. 10601(d)(3)) is amended by adding at the end the 
     following:
       ``(C)(i) The Director may use not more than 1 percent of 
     the amount to be distributed from the Fund under this 
     paragraph in a particular fiscal year to provide and improve 
     direct assistance services for crime victims, including 
     victim assistance coordinators and specialists, in the 
     Federal criminal justice system (as described in section 3771 
     of title 18, United States Code, and section 503 of the 
     Victims' Rights and Restitution Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 
     10607)) by a department or agency of the Federal Government 
     other than the Department of Justice.
       ``(ii) Beginning in the first fiscal year beginning after 
     the date of enactment of this subparagraph and every fiscal 
     year thereafter, the Director shall solicit requests for 
     funding under clause (i).
       ``(iii) Before amounts are distributed from the Fund to a 
     department or agency for the purpose described in clause (i), 
     the Director shall evaluate whether the activities proposed 
     to be carried out by such department or agency would 
     duplicate services that are provided by another department or 
     agency of the Federal Government (including the Department of 
     Justice) using amounts from the Fund, and impose measures to 
     avoid such duplication to the greatest extent possible.''.

    TITLE IV--IMPROVED DATA COLLECTION AND INTERAGENCY COORDINATION

     SEC. 401. PROMOTING DATA COLLECTION ON HUMAN TRAFFICKING.

       (a) Prevalence of Human Trafficking.--Not later than 1 year 
     after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General 
     shall submit to Congress a report on the efforts of the 
     National Institute of Justice to develop a methodology to 
     assess the prevalence of human trafficking in the United 
     States, including a timeline for completion of the 
     methodology.
       (b) Innocence Lost National Initiative.--Not later than 180 
     days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of 
     the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall submit to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on 
     Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on the 
     Judiciary and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives a report on the status of the Innocence Lost 
     National Initiative, which shall include, for each of the 
     last 5 fiscal years, information on--
       (1) the number of human traffickers who were arrested, 
     disaggregated by--
       (A) the number of individuals arrested for patronizing or 
     soliciting an adult;
       (B) the number of individuals arrested for recruitment, 
     harboring, maintaining, or obtaining an adult;
       (C) the number of individuals arrested for patronizing or 
     soliciting a minor; and
       (D) the number of individuals arrested for recruitment, 
     harboring, maintaining, or obtaining a minor;
       (2) the number of adults who were arrested on charges of 
     prostitution;
       (3) the number of minor victims who were identified;
       (4) the number of minor victims who were arrested and 
     formally petitioned by a juvenile court or criminally 
     charged; and
       (5) the placement of and social services provided to each 
     such minor victim as part of each State operation.

[[Page S5188]]

       (c) Availability of Reports.--The reports required under 
     subsections (a) and (b) shall be posted on the website of the 
     Department of Justice.

     SEC. 402. CRIME REPORTING.

       Section 7332(c) of the Uniform Federal Crime Reporting Act 
     of 1988 (28 U.S.C. 534 note) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``in the form of annual 
     Uniform Crime Reports for the United States'' and inserting 
     ``not less frequently than annually''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(4) Interagency coordination.--
       ``(A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     enactment of this paragraph, the Director of the Federal 
     Bureau of Investigation shall coordinate with the head of 
     each department or agency within the Federal Government that 
     is subject to the mandatory reporting requirements under 
     paragraph (2) for the purpose of ensuring successful 
     implementation of paragraph (2).
       ``(B) For report.--Not later than 6 months after the date 
     of enactment of this paragraph, the head of each department 
     or agency within the Federal Government that is subject to 
     the mandatory reporting requirements under paragraph (2) 
     shall provide the Director of the Federal Bureau of 
     Investigation such information as the Director determines is 
     necessary to complete the first report required under 
     paragraph (5).
       ``(5) Annual report by federal bureau of investigation.--
     Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this 
     paragraph, and annually thereafter, the Director of the 
     Federal Bureau of Investigation shall prepare and submit to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the 
     Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives a 
     report detailing the efforts of the departments and agencies 
     within the Federal Government to come into compliance with 
     paragraph (2). The report shall contain a list of all 
     departments and agencies within the Federal Government 
     subject to paragraph (2) and whether each department or 
     agency is in compliance with paragraph (2).''.

     SEC. 403. HUMAN TRAFFICKING ASSESSMENT.

       Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this 
     Act, and annually thereafter, the Executive Associate 
     Director of Homeland Security Investigations shall submit to 
     the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
     and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate, and the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on the 
     Judiciary of the House of Representatives a report on human 
     trafficking investigations undertaken by Homeland Security 
     Investigations that includes--
       (1) the number of confirmed human trafficking 
     investigations by category, including labor trafficking, sex 
     trafficking, and transnational and domestic human 
     trafficking;
       (2) the number of victims by category, including--
       (A) whether the victim is a victim of sex trafficking or a 
     victim of labor trafficking; and
       (B) whether the victim is a minor or an adult; and
       (3) an analysis of the data described in paragraphs (1) and 
     (2) and other data available to Homeland Security 
     Investigations that indicates any general human trafficking 
     or investigatory trends.

               TITLE V--TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

     SEC. 501. ENCOURAGING A VICTIM-CENTERED APPROACH TO TRAINING 
                   OF FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL.

       (a) Training Curriculum Improvements.--The Attorney 
     General, Secretary of Homeland Security, and Secretary of 
     Labor shall periodically, but not less frequently than once 
     every 2 years, implement improvements to the training 
     programs on human trafficking for employees of the Department 
     of Justice, Department of Homeland Security, and Department 
     of Labor, respectively, after consultation with survivors of 
     human trafficking, or trafficking victims service providers, 
     and Federal law enforcement agencies responsible for the 
     prevention, deterrence, and prosecution of offenses involving 
     human trafficking (such as individuals serving as, or who 
     have served as, investigators in a Federal agency and who 
     have expertise in identifying human trafficking victims and 
     investigating human trafficking cases).
       (b) Advanced Training Curriculum.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Attorney General and the Secretary 
     of Homeland Security shall develop an advanced training 
     curriculum, to supplement the basic curriculum for 
     investigative personnel of the Department of Justice and the 
     Department of Homeland Security, respectively, that--
       (A) emphasizes a multidisciplinary, collaborative effort by 
     law enforcement officers who provide a broad range of 
     investigation and prosecution options in response to 
     perpetrators, and victim service providers, who offer 
     services and resources for victims;
       (B) provides guidance about the recruitment techniques 
     employed by human traffickers to clarify that an individual 
     who knowingly solicits or patronizes a commercial sex act 
     from a person who was a minor (consistent with section 
     1591(c) of title 18, United States Code) or was subject to 
     force, fraud, or coercion is guilty of an offense under 
     chapter 77 of title 18, United States Code, and is a party to 
     a human trafficking offense; and
       (C) explains that--
       (i) victims of sex or labor trafficking often engage in 
     criminal acts as a direct result of severe trafficking in 
     persons and such individuals are victims of a crime and 
     affirmative measures should be taken to avoid arresting, 
     charging, or prosecuting such individuals for any offense 
     that is the direct result of their victimization; and
       (ii) a comprehensive approach to eliminating human 
     trafficking should include demand reduction as a component.
       (2) Use of curriculum.--The Attorney General and the 
     Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide training using 
     the curriculum developed under paragraph (1) to--
       (A) all law enforcement officers employed by the Department 
     of Justice and the Department of Homeland Security, 
     respectively, who may be involved in the investigation of 
     human trafficking offenses; and
       (B) members of task forces that participate in the 
     investigation of human trafficking offenses.
       (c) Training Components.--Section 107(c)(4)(B) of the 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
     7105(c)(4)(B)) is amended--
       (1) in clause (ii), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (2) in clause (iii), by striking the period at the end and 
     inserting ``; and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(iv) a discussion clarifying that an individual who 
     knowingly solicits or patronizes a commercial sex act from a 
     person who was a minor (consistent with section 1591(c) of 
     title 18, United States Code) or was subject to force, fraud, 
     or coercion is guilty of an offense under chapter 77 of title 
     18, United States Code, and is a party to a human trafficking 
     offense.''.

     SEC. 502. VICTIM SCREENING TRAINING.

       Section 114 of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act 
     of 2015 (42 U.S.C. 14044g) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (c)(1)(A)--
       (A) in clause (i), by striking the ``and'' at the end;
       (B) in clause (ii), by striking the period at the end and 
     inserting a semicolon; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(iii) individually screening all adults and children who 
     are suspected of engaging in commercial sex acts or who are 
     subject to labor exploitation that may be in violation of 
     child labor laws to determine whether each individual 
     screened is a victim of human trafficking; and
       ``(iv) how--

       ``(I) victims of sex or labor trafficking often engage in 
     criminal acts as a direct result of severe trafficking in 
     persons; and
       ``(II) such individuals are victims of a crime and 
     affirmative measures should be taken to avoid arresting, 
     charging, or prosecuting such individuals for any offense 
     that is the direct result of their victimization.''; and

       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(f) Department of Justice Victim Screening Protocol.--
       ``(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
     of enactment of this subsection, the Attorney General shall 
     issue a screening protocol for use during all anti-
     trafficking law enforcement operations in which the 
     Department of Justice is involved.
       ``(2) Requirements.--The protocol required to be issued 
     under paragraph (1) shall--
       ``(A) require the individual screening of all adults and 
     children who are suspected of engaging in commercial sex acts 
     or who are subject to labor exploitation that may be in 
     violation of child labor laws to determine whether each 
     individual screened is a victim of human trafficking;
       ``(B) require affirmative measures to avoid arresting, 
     charging, or prosecuting human trafficking victims for any 
     offense that is the direct result of their victimization;
       ``(C) require all Federal law enforcement officers and 
     relevant department personnel who participate in human 
     trafficking investigations to receive training on enforcement 
     of the protocol;
       ``(D) be developed in consultation with State and local law 
     enforcement agencies, the Department of Health and Human 
     Services, survivors of human trafficking, and nongovernmental 
     organizations that specialize in the identification, 
     prevention, and restoration of victims of human trafficking; 
     and
       ``(E) include--
       ``(i) procedures and practices to ensure that the screening 
     process minimizes trauma or revictimization of the person 
     being screened; and
       ``(ii) guidelines on assisting victims of human trafficking 
     in identifying and receiving victim services.''.

     SEC. 503. JUDICIAL TRAINING.

       Section 223(b)(2) of the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 
     (42 U.S.C. 13023(b)(2)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (B) by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (2) in subparagraph (C) by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(D) procedures for improving the judicial response to 
     children who are vulnerable to human trafficking, to the 
     extent an appropriate screening tool exists.''.

     SEC. 504. TRAINING OF TRIBAL LAW ENFORCEMENT AND 
                   PROSECUTORIAL PERSONNEL.

       The Attorney General, in consultation with the Director of 
     the Office of Tribal Justice, shall carry out a program under 
     which tribal law enforcement officials may receive technical 
     assistance and training to pursue a

[[Page S5189]]

     victim-centered approach to investigating and prosecuting 
     severe forms of trafficking in persons (as defined in section 
     103 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 
     U.S.C. 7102)).

                        TITLE VI--ACCOUNTABILITY

     SEC. 601. GRANT ACCOUNTABILITY.

       Section 1236 of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization 
     Act of 2013 (22 U.S.C. 7113) is amended--
       (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
     ``All grants'' and inserting the following:
       ``(a) In General.--For fiscal year 2013, and each fiscal 
     year thereafter, all grants''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(b) Application to Additional Grants.--For purposes of 
     subsection (a), for fiscal year 2018, and each fiscal year 
     thereafter, the term `grant awarded by the Attorney General 
     under this title or an Act amended by this title' includes a 
     grant under any of the following:
       ``(1) Section 223 of the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 
     (42 U.S.C. 13023).
       ``(2) The program under section 504 of the Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Act of 2017.''.

  TITLE VII--PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP ADVISORY COUNCIL TO END HUMAN 
                              TRAFFICKING

     SEC. 701. SHORT TITLE.

       This title may be cited as the ``Public-Private Partnership 
     Advisory Council to End Human Trafficking Act''.

     SEC. 702. DEFINITIONS.

       In this Act:
       (1) Council.--The term ``Council'' means the Public-Private 
     Partnership Advisory Council to End Human Trafficking.
       (2) Group.--The term ``Group'' means the Senior Policy 
     Operating Group established under section 105(g) of the 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
     7103(g)).
       (3) Task force.--The term ``Task Force'' means the 
     President's Interagency Task Force to Monitor and Combat 
     Trafficking established under section 105(a) of the 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
     7103(a)).

     SEC. 703. PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP ADVISORY COUNCIL TO END 
                   HUMAN TRAFFICKING.

       (a) Establishment.--There is established the Public-Private 
     Partnership Advisory Council to End Human Trafficking, which 
     shall provide advice and recommendations to the Group and the 
     Task Force.
       (b) Membership.--
       (1) Composition.--The Council shall be composed of not 
     fewer than 8 and not more than 14 representatives of 
     nongovernmental organizations, academia, and nonprofit groups 
     who have significant knowledge and experience in human 
     trafficking prevention and eradication, identification of 
     human trafficking, and services for human trafficking 
     victims.
       (2) Representation of nonprofit and nongovernmental 
     organizations.--To the extent practicable, members of the 
     Council shall be representatives of nonprofit groups, 
     academia, and nongovernmental organizations who accurately 
     reflect the diverse backgrounds related to work in the 
     prevention, eradication, and identification of human 
     trafficking and services for human trafficking victims in the 
     United States and internationally.
       (3) Appointment.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the President shall appoint--
       (A) 1 member of the Council, after consultation with the 
     President Pro Tempore of the Senate;
       (B) 1 member of the Council, after consultation with the 
     Minority Leader of the Senate;
       (C) 1 member of the Council, after consultation with the 
     Speaker of the House of Representatives;
       (D) 1 member of the Council, after consultation with the 
     Minority Leader of the House of Representatives; and
       (E) the remaining members of the Council.
       (4) Term; reappointment.--Each member of the Council--
       (A) shall serve for a term of 2 years; and
       (B) may be reappointed by the President to serve 1 
     additional 2-year term.
       (5) Employee status.--Members of the Council--
       (A) shall not be considered employees of the Federal 
     Government for any purpose; and
       (B) shall not receive compensation.
       (c) Functions.--The Council shall--
       (1) be a nongovernmental advisory body to the Group;
       (2) meet, at its own discretion or at the request of the 
     Group, not less frequently than annually, to review Federal 
     Government policy and programs intended to combat human 
     trafficking, including programs relating to the provision of 
     services for victims;
       (3) serve as a point of contact, with the United States 
     Advisory Council on Human Trafficking, for Federal agencies 
     reaching out to human trafficking nonprofit groups and 
     nongovernmental organizations for input on programming and 
     policies relating to human trafficking in the United States;
       (4) formulate assessments and recommendations to ensure 
     that the policy and programming efforts of the Federal 
     Government conform, to the extent practicable, to the best 
     practices in the field of human trafficking prevention and 
     rehabilitation and aftercare of human trafficking victims; 
     and
       (5) meet with the Group not less frequently than annually, 
     and not later than 45 days before a meeting with the Task 
     Force, to formally present the findings and recommendations 
     of the Council.
       (d) Nonapplicability of FACA.--The Council shall not be 
     subject to the requirements under the Federal Advisory 
     Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).

     SEC. 704. REPORTS.

       Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act and annually thereafter until the date described in 
     section 705, the Council, in coordination with the United 
     States Advisory Council on Human Trafficking, shall submit a 
     report containing the findings derived from the reviews 
     conducted pursuant to section 3(c)(2) to--
       (1) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
       (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;
       (3) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs of the Senate;
       (4) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate;
       (5) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
     Representatives;
       (6) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
     Representatives;
       (7) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
     Representatives;
       (8) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
     Representatives;
       (9) the chair of the Task Force; and
       (10) the members of the Group.

     SEC. 705. SUNSET.

       The Council shall terminate on September 30, 2020.

                          ____________________



