

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S8238-S8239]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 CONGRATULATING THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA-LINCOLN VOLLEYBALL TEAM FOR 
 WINNING THE 2017 NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION DIVISION I 
                        VOLLEYBALL CHAMPIONSHIP

  Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I rise this evening to call up and adopt 
a resolution recognizing this year's NCAA champions in women's 
volleyball--the Huskers from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. This 
is the program's fifth national championship and second title in 3 
years.
  During the NCAA tournament, Nebraska played remarkably well, winning 
18 sets and finishing on a 19-match winning streak. They were so fun to 
watch.
  The entire team contributed to the outstanding victory, and I want to 
acknowledge their extraordinary effort: Annika Albrecht, Mikaela 
Foecke, Hunter Atherton, Hayley Densberger, Allie Havers, Briana 
Holman, Kenzie Maloney, Kelly Hunter, Chesney McClellan, Sami 
Slaughter, Lauren Stivrins, Jazz Sweet, Anezka Szabo, and Sydney 
Townsend all had their hard work pay off and they worked together to 
win a championship.
  The Nebraska coaches worked hard, helped train our athletes, and 
strategized this championship run.
  Head coach John Cook won his fourth national champion as a Husker 
head coach. He was joined by assistant coach Tyler Hildebrand, 
assistant coach Kayla Banwarth, volunteer assistant coach Ryan Coomes, 
director of operations Lindsay Peterson, video coordinator Kelly 
O'Connor, and graduate managers Joe Klein, John Henry, and Bre Mackie. 
Together, as a team, they guided that outstanding group of women to 
another national championship. These coaches have created a foundation 
and a winning tradition--winning the national championship in front of 
a record-setting crowd of Husker fans--the best fans in college 
football. Nebraskans couldn't be more proud of this volleyball team and 
the coaching staff.
  The Huskers won this national championship the Nebraska way--with 
hard work, sportsmanship, and determination. They deserve to be saluted 
by the Senate, and I urge my colleagues to pass this resolution and 
recognize their outstanding accomplishment.
  I congratulate them on their victory and know they will continue to 
be great role models to girls and athletes everywhere.
  Thank you.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Nebraska.
  Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, I thank my senior Senator for leading us in 
this resolution.
  Nebraska volleyball continues to dominate. If there is any debate 
about the best volleyball State in the Union, there should be no more. 
Nebraska has proved, yet again, we have the best team, the best 
coaching staff, and indisputably the best fans in the country.
  Two years ago, this team won the national championship at home in 
Omaha, setting records with the crowds that attended the games there, 
and last week in Kansas City, we set another alltime record with the 
most watched championship volleyball game ever at 18,516 fans, 
including my 6-year old who stayed awake at nearly 11 p.m. as we were 
finishing, and he was deciding to watch it upside down, hanging over 
the seats from the upper decks at the arena in Kansas City.
  So I proudly join the senior Senator and Husker nation in 
congratulating these young women, saying ``Go Big Red'' on behalf of 
all 1.9 million Nebraskans.
  Just two stats of note. First, in the earlier round at the final 
four, Nebraska beat Penn State. Those are the two winningest teams in 
the history of volleyball. Nebraska has the most wins at 1,308. Penn 
State has the greatest winning percentage. We have now won five 
championships in 22 years, as well as three runner-up, second-place 
finishes in the last 30 years.
  Coach Cook, as Senator Fischer mentioned, has won four championships 
at Nebraska over the last 17 years. The alltime record for the history 
of volleyball is five national championships, and we expect that Coach 
Cook will set that new record.
  So I join my senior Senator in urging the Senate to pass this 
resolution for the University of Nebraska women's volleyball team.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Nebraska.
  Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the consideration of S. Res. 365, submitted earlier today.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report the resolution.

[[Page S8239]]

  The legislative clerk read as follows:

       A resolution (S. Res. 365) congratulating the University of 
     Nebraska-Lincoln volleyball team for winning the 2017 
     National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I 
     Volleyball Championship.

  There being no objection, the Senate proceeded to consider the 
resolution.
  Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, and the motions to 
reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table with no 
intervening action or debate.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The resolution (S. Res. 365) was agreed to.
  The preamble was agreed to.
  (The resolution, with its preamble, is printed in today's Record 
under ``Submitted Resolutions.'')
  Mrs. FISCHER. Thank you.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Ohio.
  Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, first, I congratulate the Nebraska 
women's volleyball team and say I was proud to be here on the floor to 
be one of those who did not object to this wonderful resolution just 
offered by my colleagues from Nebraska.

                          ____________________



