

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 170 (Monday, October 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 170 (Monday, October 23, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8075]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of committees were delivered to 
the Clerk for printing and reference to the proper calendar, as 
follows:

       Mr. GOODLATTE: Committee on the Judiciary. H.R. 4010. A 
     bill to amend the Revised Statutes of the United States and 
     title 28, United States Code, to enhance compliance with 
     requests for information pursuant to legislative power under 
     Article I of the Constitution, and for other purposes; with 
     an amendment (Rept. 115-360). Referred to the Committee of 
     the Whole House on the state of the Union.
       Mr. HENSARLING: Committee on Financial Services. H.R. 3898. 
     A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury to place 
     conditions on certain accounts at United States financial 
     institutions with respect to North Korea, and for other 
     purposes; with amendments (Rept. 115-361). Referred to the 
     Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union.
       Mr. HENSARLING: Committee on Financial Services. H.R. 3972. 
     A bill to clarify that family offices and family clients are 
     accredited investors, and for other purposes; with amendments 
     (Rept. 115-362). Referred to the Committee of the Whole House 
     on the state of the Union.
       Mr. COLLINS of Georgia: Committee on Rules. House 
     Resolution 577. Resolution providing for consideration of the 
     bill (H.R. 469) to impose certain limitations on consent 
     decrees and settlement agreements by agencies that require 
     the agencies to take regulatory action in accordance with the 
     terms thereof, and for other purposes, and providing for 
     consideration of the bill (H.R. 732) to limit donations made 
     pursuant to settlement agreements to which the United States 
     is a party, and for other purposes (Rept. 115-363). Referred 
     to the House Calendar.
       Mr. BISHOP of Utah: Committee on Natural Resources. House 
     Resolution 555. Resolution of inquiry requesting the 
     President and directing the Secretary of the Interior to 
     transmit, respectively, certain documents and other 
     information to the House of Representatives relating to the 
     executive order on the review of designations under the 
     Antiquities Act; with an amendment (Rept. 115-364); 
     adversely. Referred to the House Calendar.
       Mr. BISHOP of Utah: Committee on Natural Resources. H.R. 
     3279. A bill to amend the Mineral Leasing Act to provide that 
     extraction of helium from gas produced under a Federal 
     mineral lease shall maintain the lease as if the helium were 
     oil and gas (Rept. 115-365). Referred to the Committee of the 
     Whole House on the state of the Union.


                         DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE

  Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the Committee on Ways and Means 
discharged from further consideration. H.R. 3921 referred to the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union.

                          ____________________



