

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8282-H8283]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             KISATCHIE NATIONAL FOREST LAND CONVEYANCE ACT

  Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 2941) to provide for the conveyance of certain National 
Forest System land within Kisatchie National Forest in the State of 
Louisiana.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 2941

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Kisatchie National Forest 
     Land Conveyance Act''.

     SEC. 2. FINDING.

       Congress finds that it is in the public interest to 
     authorize the conveyance of certain Federal land in the 
     Kisatchie National Forest in the State of Louisiana for 
     market value consideration.

     SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

       In this Act:
       (1) Collins camp properties.--The term ``Collins Camp 
     Properties'' means Collins Camp Properties, Inc., a 
     corporation incorporated under the laws of the State.
       (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
     of Agriculture.
       (3) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of 
     Louisiana.

     SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF CONVEYANCES, KISATCHIE NATIONAL 
                   FOREST, LOUISIANA.

       (a) Authorization.--
       (1) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights and 
     subsection (b), the Secretary may convey the Federal land 
     described in paragraph (2) by quitclaim deed at public or 
     private sale, including competitive sale by auction, bid, or 
     other methods.
       (2) Description of land.--The Federal land referred to in 
     paragraph (1) consists of--
       (A) all Federal land within sec. 9, T. 10 N., R. 5 W., Winn 
     Parish, Louisiana; and
       (B) a 2.16-acre parcel of Federal land located in the SW\1/
     4\ of sec. 4, T. 10 N., R. 5 W., Winn Parish, Louisiana, as 
     depicted on a certificate of survey dated March 7, 2007, by 
     Glen L. Cannon, P.L.S. 4436.
       (b) First Right of Purchase.--Subject to valid existing 
     rights and section 6, during the 1-year period beginning on 
     the date of enactment of this Act, on the provision of 
     consideration by the Collins Camp Properties to the 
     Secretary, the Secretary shall convey, by quitclaim deed, to 
     Collins Camp Properties all right, title and interest of the 
     United States in and to--
       (1) not more than 47.92 acres of Federal land comprising 
     the Collins Campsites within sec. 9, T. 10 N., R. 5 W., in 
     Winn Parish, Louisiana, as generally depicted on a 
     certificate of survey dated February 28, 2007, by Glen L. 
     Cannon, P.L.S. 4436; and
       (2) the parcel of Federal land described in subsection 
     (a)(2)(B).
       (c) Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may--
       (1) configure the Federal land to be conveyed under this 
     Act--
       (A) to maximize the marketability of the conveyance; or
       (B) to achieve management objectives; and
       (2) establish any terms and conditions for the conveyances 
     under this Act that the Secretary determines to be in the 
     public interest.
       (d) Consideration.--Consideration for a conveyance of 
     Federal land under this Act shall be--
       (1) in the form of cash; and
       (2) in an amount equal to the market value of the Federal 
     land being conveyed, as determined under subsection (e).
       (e) Market Value.--The market value of the Federal land 
     conveyed under this Act shall be determined--
       (1) in the case of Federal land conveyed under subsection 
     (b), by an appraisal that is--
       (A) conducted in accordance with the Uniform Appraisal 
     Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions; and
       (B) approved by the Secretary; or
       (2) if conveyed by a method other than the methods 
     described in subsection (b), by competitive sale.
       (f) Hazardous Substances.--
       (1) In general.--In any conveyance of Federal land under 
     this Act, the Secretary shall meet disclosure requirements 
     for hazardous substances, but shall otherwise not be required 
     to remediate or abate the substances.
       (2) Effect.--Nothing in this section otherwise affects the 
     application of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
     Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et 
     seq.) to the conveyances of Federal land.

     SEC. 5. PROCEEDS FROM THE SALE OF LAND.

       The Secretary shall deposit the proceeds of a conveyance of 
     Federal land under section 4 in the fund established under 
     Public Law 90-171 (commonly known as the ``Sisk Act'') (16 
     U.S.C. 484a).

     SEC. 6. ADMINISTRATION.

       (a) Costs.--As a condition of a conveyance of Federal land 
     to Collins Camp Properties under section 4, the Secretary 
     shall require Collins Camp Properties to pay at closing--
       (1) reasonable appraisal costs; and
       (2) the cost of any administrative and environmental 
     analyses required by law (including regulations).
       (b) Permits.--
       (1) In general.--An offer by Collins Camp Properties for 
     the acquisition of the Federal land under section 4 shall be 
     accompanied by a written statement from each holder of a 
     Forest Service special use authorization with respect to the 
     Federal land that specifies that the holder agrees to 
     relinquish the special use authorization on the conveyance of 
     the Federal land to Collins Camp Properties.
       (2) Special use authorizations.--If any holder of a special 
     use authorization described in paragraph (1) fails to provide 
     a written authorization in accordance with that paragraph, 
     the Secretary shall require, as a condition of the 
     conveyance, that Collins Camp Properties administer the 
     special use authorization according to the terms of the 
     special use authorization until the date on which the special 
     use authorization expires.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Arkansas (Mr. Crawford) and the gentlewoman from Ohio (Ms. Fudge) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Arkansas.


                             General Leave

  Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and include 
extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Arkansas?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2941, the Kisatchie 
National Forest Land Conveyance Act.
  This measure introduced by our colleague, Mr. Abraham, authorizes the 
USDA to sell specified Federal land in Winn Parish, Louisiana. The 
rural residential qualities of the land make it incompatible with 
National Forest management, and this transfer would eliminate 
unnecessary administrative and boundary maintenance costs on the 
already strained Forest Service.
  The Kisatchie National Forest is rich in renewable wildlife 
resources, and supporting wilderness habitat is vital to their 
sustainability. This transfer, supported by the Forest Service, will 
allow the forest to be managed at the highest level of stewardship.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. FUDGE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I rise in support of H.R. 2941, the Kisatchie National Forest Land 
Conveyance Act.
  Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2941 permits the sale of two isolated parcels of 
Kisatchie National Forest land, totaling approximately 50 acres. These 
parcels are isolated from the forest's core lands and are intermixed 
with private land and residences, leaving it incompatible with the 
National Forest management.
  The proceeds from the sale of these parcels will be made available 
for the acquisition of lands and interest in the Kisatchie National 
Forest.
  Under H.R. 2941, the Secretary of Agriculture is required to first 
convey a portion of the land to Collins Camp Properties. Collins Camp 
Properties must pay reasonable appraisal costs and costs of any 
required administrative and environmental analysis.
  H.R. 2941 allows the Kisatchie National Forest to consolidate 
ownership of natural lands and continues the strong tradition of the 
National Forest Service acting as stewards for the environment.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of the bill, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to support the passage 
of H.R. 2941. I thank the gentlewoman from Ohio for her support.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. Crawford) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 2941.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the

[[Page H8283]]

rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



