

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8604-H8605]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        HONORING CATHEDRAL CITY POLICE CHIEF GEORGE S. CRUM, JR.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Ruiz) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor the outstanding service and 
retirement of one of California's finest, Cathedral City Police Chief 
George S. Crum, Jr. Chief Crum is an exceptional leader in the 
community, dedicating his life to public service for over three 
decades.
  He started his career 30 years ago as a police officer with the 
Fullerton Police Department. His commitment to keeping our citizens 
safe earned him many promotions over the years, from sergeant, to 
lieutenant, and, eventually, captain of the Fullerton Police 
Department. He was appointed as police chief of the Cathedral City 
Police Department on December 10, 2014, and recently retired on 
November 2, 2017.
  Throughout his career, his dedication to community engagement has 
helped to ensure justice and build a strong community. He is a member 
of numerous organizations that promote safety throughout California, 
including the Riverside County Law Enforcement

[[Page H8605]]

Administrators Association, the Coachella Valley Association of 
Governments, and the California Police Chiefs Association.
  Not only has he been a strong leader in law enforcement across the 
region, Chief Crum is also a leader in molding the minds of our 
students. He was an instructor at Fullerton College for nearly 20 
years, and he is currently a Public Safety Academy instructor at 
College of the Desert in the valley. He serves as a mentor to the next 
generation of law enforcement leaders in our region, inspiring them to 
serve their own communities.
  I am so humbled to have worked with him over the years to keep the 
public safe, and I am proud to call him a friend. It has also been my 
honor to work with him on legislation to provide robust benefits to the 
families of public safety officers killed in the line of duty.
  Chief Crum has given so much to the community over the years, and I 
have a feeling this will continue even in his retirement.
  So on behalf of my wife, Monica, and the entire 36th Congressional 
District, I want to thank Chief Crum; his wife, Rebecca; and his 
children, Dylan and Madison, from the bottom of my heart, for their 
service and sacrifice to keep our communities safe.
  While we are sad to see him retire, I wish him and his family the 
best during his well-deserved retirement.


               Recognizing Pete M. Ortiz on Veterans Day

  Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, this week, on Veterans Day, we honor those who 
have bravely served in our Nation's military. Our veterans served with 
incredible selflessness; they served with great courage; and they 
served with sacrifice, often leaving behind spouses, children, and 
loved ones to keep our Nation safe and to protect the freedoms we hold 
so dear. For this, our veterans and their families have earned our 
respect and our deep debt of gratitude.
  On Veterans Day, we take a moment to pause and reflect on their 
service. So today, I want to recognize the life of one of my district's 
finest members, Pete M. Ortiz.
  Mr. Ortiz passed away on September 14, 2017, at the age of 76. He 
came from a family that has committed themselves to serving our country 
in uniform for generations. Since World War II, over 50 members--50 
members--of the Ortiz family have bravely served in our Armed Forces, 
putting their lives on the line to protect our freedoms.
  Following his family's legacy, Mr. Ortiz honorably served in the Army 
National Guard from 1956 to 1960. He was awarded the Marksman Badge and 
Pistol Bar, an honor presented to soldiers with high marksmanship 
skills. I was proud to help obtain and personally present him with 
these medals for his distinguished service.
  Mr. Ortiz was also a beloved member of the Coachella Valley. Not only 
was he a carpenter and avid fisherman, he was part of a unique desert 
skydive team, the Desert Skydivers of Coachella.
  All those who knew him remember his zest for life and devotion to 
family. One of his greatest joys was getting his entire family together 
for a barbecue. His family remembers his masterful skills for grilling, 
especially carne asada, and his dream of one day opening his own taco 
stand.
  To his wife, Patricia, and children, Pete, Tina, Sherry, and Sally, 
your father was an example to us all. His bravery, selflessness, and 
courage in the military are an inspiration challenging us to better 
serve our own communities. His adventures and curious spirit are a 
reminder to us all to live life to the fullest and enjoy the people and 
places that bring us joy.
  So on behalf of my wife, Monica, and my daughters, Sky and Sage, we 
honor the service and legacy of Mr. Ortiz and his entire family.
  From the bottom of our hearts, we thank all of our veterans for their 
dedication and sacrifice for our country as we honor their service this 
Veterans Day.

                          ____________________



