

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 203 (Wednesday, December 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 203 (Wednesday, December 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S8008-S8009]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I have 12 request for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:

[[Page S8009]]

  



           Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry

  The Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, December 13, 
2017, at 9:30 a.m. in room SR-328A to conduct a hearing.


           Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, December 13, 
2017, at 10 a.m. in room SH-216 to conduct a hearing.


               Committee on Environment and Public Works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, December 13, 2017, at 
9:50 a.m. in room SD-406 to consider the nomination R. D. James, of 
Missouri, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works, 
Department of Defense.


               Committee on Environment and Public Works

  The Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, December 13, 2017, at 10 
a.m. in room SD-406 to conduct a hearing entitled ``Oversight of the 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission''.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, December 13, 2017, at 9:30 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing entitled ``Using Force: Strategic, Political, and 
Legal Considerations''.


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, December 13, 2017, at 2:30 a.m. to 
conduct a hearing entitled ``Treaties''.


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, December 13, 
2017, at 10 a.m. in room SD-430 to conduct a hearing entitled 
``Implementation of the 21st Century Cures Act: Responding to Mental 
Health Needs''.


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, December 13, 
2017, in room S-216 to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: 
Johnny Collett, of Kentucky, to be Assistant Secretary for Special 
Education and Rehabilitative Services, Mitchell Zais, of South 
Carolina, to be Deputy Secretary, and James Blew, of California, to be 
Assistant Secretary for Planning, Evaluation, and Policy Development, 
all of the Department of Education, William Beach, of Kansas, to be 
Commissioner of Labor Statistics, Kate S. O'Scannlain, of Maryland, to 
be Solicitor, and Scott A. Mugno, of Pennsylvania, and Preston 
Rutledge, of the District of Columbia, both to be an Assistant 
Secretary, all of the Department of Labor, and other pending 
nominations.


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, December 13, 2017, at 10 a.m. in 
room SD-226 to conduct a hearing on the following confirmation: 
Elizabeth L. Branch, of Georgia, to be United States Circuit Judge for 
the Eleventh Circuit, R. Stan Baker, to be United States District Judge 
for the Southern District of Georgia, Charles Barnes Goodwin, to be 
United States District Judge for the Western District of Oklahoma, 
Matthew J. Kacsmaryk, to be United States District Judge for the 
Northern District of Texas, Matthew Spencer Petersen, of Virginia, to 
be United States District Judge for the District of Columbia, and Eli 
Jeremy Richardson, to be United States District Judge for the Middle 
District of Tennessee.


           Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities

  The Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities of the 
Committee on Armed Service is authorized to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Wednesday, December 13, 2017, at 10 a.m. to conduct a 
closed hearing.


                       Subcommittee on Personnel

  The Subcommittee on Personnel of the Committee on Armed Services is 
authorized to meet during the session of the Senate on Wednesday, 
December 13, 2017, at 10 a.m. in room SR-253 to conduct a hearing 
research, diagnosis, and treatment for traumatic brain injury/
concussion in servicemembers.


   Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition Policy and Consumer Rights

  The Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition Policy and Consumer Rights 
of the Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Wednesday, December 13, 2017, at 2 p.m. in 
room SD-226 to conduct a hearing entitled ``The Consumer Welfare 
Standard in Antitrust: Outdated or a Harbor in Sea of Doubt?''.

                          ____________________



