

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 195 (Thursday, November 30, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9568-H9569]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. PEARCE:
       H.R. 4488. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to provide conditional protected status for certain 
     individuals who came to the United States as children, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for himself and Mr. 
             Grijalva):
       H.R. 4489. A bill to provide for the preservation of 
     America's outdoor heritage and enhance recreation 
     opportunities on Federal land, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Science, Space, and Technology, the Judiciary, 
     Agriculture, and Transportation and Infrastructure, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Tonko, 
             Ms. Barragan, Ms. Norton, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. 
             Quigley, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Walz, Mr. Panetta, Mr. 
             Khanna, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Polis, Ms. Lee, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Mr. Evans, Mr. McGovern, and Ms. 
             Hanabusa):
       H.R. 4490. A bill to establish an integrated national 
     approach to respond to ongoing and expected effects of 
     extreme weather and climate change by protecting, managing, 
     and conserving the fish, wildlife, and plants of the United 
     States, and to maximize Government efficiency and reduce 
     costs, in cooperation with State, local, and Tribal 
     Governments and other entities, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. PRICE of North Carolina (for himself, Mrs. Davis 
             of California, and Mr. Scott of Virginia):
       H.R. 4491. A bill to reauthorize title VI of the Higher 
     Education Act of 1965; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. MAST (for himself, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, Mr. Gibbs, and Ms. Brownley of California):
       H.R. 4492. A bill to reauthorize and amend the Water 
     Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 2014; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MARINO (for himself and Mr. Barletta):
       H.R. 4493. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     require the impaneling of a new jury if a jury fails to 
     recommend by unanimous vote a sentence for conviction of a 
     crime punishable by death; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DeSANTIS (for himself, Mr. Schneider, Mr. 
             Delaney, Mr. Brat, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Loebsack, Ms. 
             Gabbard, Mr. Williams, Mr. Gallego, Miss Rice of New 
             York, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Messer, Mr. Moulton, Mr. 
             Cooper, Mr. Biggs, Mr. Bacon, Mr. Bergman, Mr. 
             Francis Rooney of Florida, Mr. Jody B. Hice of 
             Georgia, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Palmer, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, Mr. Johnson of Louisiana, Mr. 
             O'Halleran, Ms. McSally, Mr. Tipton, Mr. Banks of 
             Indiana, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Polis, Mrs. 
             Black, Mr. Rokita, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Fleischmann, 
             Mr. Jones, Ms. Norton, Mr. Pearce, Ms. Pingree, Mr. 
             Norman, Mr. Marino, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Duncan of South 
             Carolina, Mr. Posey, Mr. Costa, Mr. Lance, Mr. 
             Gottheimer, Mrs. Mimi Walters of California, Mr. 
             Khanna, Mr. Blum, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. 
             Walker, Mr. Buck, and Mr. Gallagher):
       H.R. 4494. A bill to amend the Congressional Accountability 
     Act of 1995 to prohibit the use of public funds to pay awards 
     and settlements in connection with claims under such Act 
     which arise from sexual harassment, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. BUCK (for himself, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, 
             Mr. Garrett, Mr. Taylor, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Johnson of 
             Louisiana, Mr. Brat, Mr. Meadows, and Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick):
       H.R. 4495. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to deny as a trade or business expense deduction amounts 
     paid or incurred in connection with the settlement of a 
     sexual harassment or sexual assault claim; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. FRANKS of Arizona (for himself, Mr. Biggs, Mr. 
             Gosar, Mr. Schweikert, and Ms. McSally):
       H.R. 4496. A bill to amend the Clean Air Act with respect 
     to nonattainment plan provisions, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. CASTOR of Florida (for herself and Mr. Bacon):
       H.R. 4497. A bill to amend the Congressional Accountability 
     Act of 1995 to prohibit the use of public funds to pay 
     settlements and awards for workplace harassment and 
     discrimination claims under the Congressional Accountability 
     Act of 1995 which arise from acts committed personally by 
     Members of Congress, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on House Administration.
           By Mr. CRIST (for himself and Mr. Bilirakis):
       H.R. 4498. A bill to prohibit military assistance to 
     countries that engage in arms transfers and activities with 
     respect to Iran, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. DUFFY:
       H.R. 4499. A bill to amend the Dodd-Frank Wall Street 
     Reform and Consumer Protection Act to set the rate of pay for 
     employees of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection in 
     accordance with the General Schedule; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Fudge, and 
             Mr. Larson of Connecticut):
       H.R. 4500. A bill to restore protections for Social 
     Security, Railroad retirement, and Black Lung benefits from 
     administrative offset; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LOEBSACK (for himself, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, and Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire):
       H.R. 4501. A bill to increase funding for the State 
     response to the opioid misuse crisis and to provide funding 
     for research on addiction and pain related to the substance 
     misuse crisis; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. McCAUL (for himself, Mr. Sires, and Mr. Yoho):

[[Page H9569]]

  

       H.R. 4502. A bill to establish a review of United States 
     multilateral aid; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. MESSER:
       H.R. 4503. A bill to amend the Congressional Accountability 
     Act of 1995 to prohibit the imposition of nondisclosure 
     agreements as a condition of the payment of an award or 
     settlement in connection with a violation of such Act, to 
     require Members of Congress to reimburse the Treasury for 
     amounts paid as awards and settlements under such Act in 
     cases of sexual harassment and sexual assault, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on House Administration, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. QUIGLEY:
       H.R. 4504. A bill to amend the Ethics in Government Act of 
     1978, the Rules of the House of Representatives, the Lobbying 
     Disclosure Act of 1995, the Legislative Reorganization Act of 
     1946, the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act 
     for Fiscal Year 2009, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, the 
     Foreign Agents 16 Registration Act of 1938, the Financial 
     Stability Act of 2010, and the Federal Funding Accountability 
     and Transparency Act of 2006 to improve access to information 
     in the legislative and executive branches of the Government, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Rules, House Administration, the Judiciary, Ethics, Ways and 
     Means, and Financial Services, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. TAKANO (for himself, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Brendan F. 
             Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Danny K. Davis 
             of Illinois, Mr. Delaney, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Grijalva, 
             Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Khanna, Ms. Lee, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. Pallone, 
             Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Polis, Ms. Schakowsky, 
             Mr. Serrano, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Ms. 
             Maxine Waters of California, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. 
             Wilson of Florida, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. 
             Carbajal, Mr. Sablan, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Mr. Norcross, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, 
             Ms. Eshoo, Ms. Hanabusa, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, and Ms. Adams):
       H.R. 4505. A bill to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
     1938 to establish a minimum salary threshold for bona fide 
     executive, administrative, and professional employees exempt 
     from Federal overtime compensation requirements, and 
     automatically update such threshold every 3 years; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mrs. TORRES (for herself, Mr. Cole, Mrs. Radewagen, 
             Mr. Kind, Mr. O'Halleran, Ms. Jackson Lee, and Mr. 
             Grijalva):
       H.R. 4506. A bill to provide incentives to encourage tribal 
     job creation and economic activity, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Foreign Affairs, and Education and the 
     Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WITTMAN (for himself, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. 
             Harris, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Massie, Mr. 
             Pearce, Mrs. Hartzler, Mr. Rouzer, and Mr. Franks of 
             Arizona):
       H.R. 4507. A bill to require assurances that certain family 
     planning service projects and programs will provide pamphlets 
     containing the contact information of adoption centers; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CROWLEY:
       H. Res. 636. A resolution relating to the exercise of the 
     authority of the ranking minority member of the Committee on 
     the Judiciary; considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. LAMBORN (for himself, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. 
             Pearce, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Jody B. Hice of 
             Georgia, Mr. Cole, Mr. Babin, Mr. Bost, Mr. Rokita, 
             Mr. Norman, Mr. Aderholt, Mr. Conaway, Mr. Thomas J. 
             Rooney of Florida, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. Stewart, Mr. 
             Westerman, Mr. Hultgren, Mr. Wenstrup, Mr. Banks of 
             Indiana, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. Wilson of South 
             Carolina, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Barr, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. 
             Harris, Mr. Walberg, Mr. LaHood, Mr. Flores, Mr. 
             Graves of Louisiana, Mr. Davidson, Mr. Allen, Mr. 
             Williams, Mr. Wittman, Mr. Estes of Kansas, Mr. 
             Gaetz, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr. 
             Gibbs, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. Harper, Mr. 
             Walker, and Mrs. Hartzler):
       H. Res. 637. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the symbols and traditions of 
     Christmas should be protected for use by those who celebrate 
     Christmas; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. WOMACK (for himself, Mr. Hill, Mr. Westerman, 
             and Mr. Crawford):
       H. Res. 638. A resolution recognizing the Aviation Cadet 
     Museum in Eureka Springs, Arkansas, as the national aviation 
     cadet museum of the United States; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services.

                          ____________________



