

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7381-H7382]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mrs. HARTZLER:
       H.R. 3754. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the recruitment, hiring, and retention of health 
     professionals by the Veterans Health Administration, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.

[[Page H7382]]

  

           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California:
       H.R. 3755. A bill to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to 
     improve the consumer reporting system, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER:
       H.R. 3756. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to exclude MA quality rating bonuses for certain 
     new entrant Medicare Advantage plans from benchmark cap; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KHANNA (for himself, Mr. Evans, Mr. Butterfield, 
             Mr. Conyers, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Norton, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Ms. Lee, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Rush, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
             Mr. Nadler, Mr. Cartwright, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. 
             Pallone, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Cummings, Mr. 
             DeFazio, Mr. Welch, Ms. Brownley of California, Ms. 
             Moore, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Maxine Waters of California, 
             Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Norcross, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. 
             Delaney, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. 
             Serrano, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Gutierrez, 
             Ms. Fudge, Mr. Soto, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Garamendi, 
             Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Sires, Ms. Speier, Ms. 
             Roybal-Allard, Mr. Hastings, and Mr. Brendan F. Boyle 
             of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 3757. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to modify the earned income tax credit to account for 
     the amount by which economic growth has outpaced income 
     growth, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Ms. SINEMA (for herself and Mr. Poliquin):
       H.R. 3758. A bill to provide immunity from suit for certain 
     individuals who disclose potential examples of financial 
     exploitation of senior citizens, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. HARPER (for himself, Ms. Castor of Florida, Ms. 
             Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, and Ms. 
             Stefanik):
       H.R. 3759. A bill to provide for the establishment and 
     maintenance of a Family Caregiving Strategy, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Lynch, 
             Mr. Capuano, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, 
             Mr. Cummings, Mr. Langevin, Ms. Tsongas, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Ellison, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, 
             Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Takano, Mr. Price of North 
             Carolina, and Ms. Eshoo):
       H.R. 3760. A bill to amend the Truth in Lending Act to 
     establish a national usury rate for consumer credit 
     transactions; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. CONAWAY (for himself, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. McKinley, Mr. 
             Cramer, Mr. Murphy of Pennsylvania, Mr. Jenkins of 
             West Virginia, Mr. Peterson, Mr. Tipton, Mr. Costa, 
             Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. Gene Green of 
             Texas, Mr. Cole, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Hurd, Mr. Barr, Mr. 
             Bishop of Georgia, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Michael F. 
             Doyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Huizenga, 
             Mr. Barton, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Bost, Mr. Johnson of 
             Ohio, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Aderholt, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. 
             Curbelo of Florida, and Mr. Hudson):
       H.R. 3761. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to improve and extend the credit for carbon dioxide 
     sequestration; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. DUFFY (for himself and Mr. Heck):
       H.R. 3762. A bill to preserve the State-based system of 
     insurance regulation and provide greater oversight of and 
     transparency on international insurance standards setting 
     processes, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Rules, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. FOSTER (for himself and Mr. LoBiondo):
       H.R. 3763. A bill to require a per capita calculation for 
     eligibility of a jurisdiction to participate in the EPSCoR 
     program of the National Science Foundation, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. GIANFORTE:
       H.R. 3764. A bill to extend the Federal recognition to the 
     Little Shell Tribe of Chippewa Indians of Montana, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. GIANFORTE:
       H.R. 3765. A bill to redesignate certain clinics of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs located in Montana; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. HIMES:
       H.R. 3766. A bill to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to 
     require consumer reporting agencies to place a security 
     freeze on a consumer report without a fee if the consumer 
     reporting agency is subject to a breach of data security, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. LONG (for himself, Mr. Courtney, Mrs. Comstock, 
             Mr. Cook, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. 
             DelBene, Mr. Hastings, and Mr. Carson of Indiana):
       H.R. 3767. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     provide for the participation of pediatric subspecialists in 
     the National Health Service Corps program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. QUIGLEY (for himself, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Barragan, 
             Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Evans, Ms. Kaptur, 
             Ms. Lee, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Ms. Shea-
             Porter, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Tsongas, and Mr. Khanna):
       H.R. 3768. A bill to encourage recycling and reduction of 
     disposable plastic bottles in units of the National Park 
     System, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. SMITH of Washington (for himself, Mr. Ellison, 
             and Mr. Sires):
       H.R. 3769. A bill to establish the National Freight 
     Mobility Infrastructure Fund, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. STEFANIK (for herself, Mr. Young of Iowa, Mr. 
             Courtney, and Mr. O'Halleran):
       H.R. 3770. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     reauthorize and extend funding for community health centers; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. YARMUTH (for himself, Mr. Sam Johnson of Texas, 
             Mr. Khanna, Mr. Langevin, Ms. Norton, and Ms. Titus):
       H. Res. 514. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of the week of September 11 through 15, 2017, as 
     ``National Family Service Learning Week''; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. CROWLEY (for himself, Mr. Richmond, Ms. Michelle 
             Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, and Mr. Pocan):
       H. Res. 515. A resolution establishing the Select Committee 
     on White Supremacy and Domestic Terror Movements; to the 
     Committee on Rules.
           By Mr. KNIGHT (for himself and Mr. Gomez):
       H. Res. 516. A resolution supporting the bid of Los 
     Angeles, California, to bring the 2028 Summer Olympic Games 
     back to the United States and pledging the cooperation of the 
     House of Representatives with respect to that bid; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mrs. DAVIS of California (for herself and Mr. 
             Grijalva):
       H. Res. 517. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of October 2017 as ``National Principals Month''; 
     to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. PAULSEN (for himself and Mr. Cohen):
       H. Res. 518. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of September 2017 as ``Pulmonary Fibrosis 
     Awareness Month''; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. RUSH:
       H. Res. 519. A resolution supporting the effort to raise 
     awareness of the vital roles that franchising and the 
     entrepreneurial spirit play in the economy of the United 
     States by expressing support for the designation of National 
     Franchising Day on September 13; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.

                          ____________________



