

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 162 (Tuesday, October 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 162 (Tuesday, October 10, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7900-H7901]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 JAVIER VEGA, JR. MEMORIAL ACT OF 2017

  Mr. BARLETTA. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (S. 1617) to designate the checkpoint of the United States Border 
Patrol located on United States Highway 77 North in Sarita, Texas, as 
the ``Javier Vega, Jr. Border Patrol Checkpoint''.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                S. 1617

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Javier Vega, Jr. Memorial 
     Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

       Congress finds the following:
       (1) A native of La Feria, Texas, Border Patrol Agent Javier 
     Vega, Jr., served his country first a member of the United 
     States Marines Corps and then proudly as a border patrol 
     agent in the canine division with his dog, Goldie.
       (2) Agent Vega was assigned to the Kingsville, Texas, 
     Border Patrol Station as a canine handler and worked 
     primarily at the Sarita Border Patrol Checkpoint.
       (3) On August 3, 2014, Agent Vega was on a fishing trip 
     with his family near Raymondville, Texas, when 2 criminal 
     aliens attempted to rob and attack them.
       (4) Agent Vega was shot and killed while attempting to 
     subdue the assailants and protecting his family.
       (5) Agent Vega is survived by his wife, parents, 3 sons, 
     brother, sister-in-law, niece, and dog, Goldie.

     SEC. 3. DESIGNATION.

       The checkpoint of the United States Border Patrol located 
     on United States Highway 77 North in Sarita, Texas, shall be 
     known and designated as the ``Javier Vega, Jr. Border Patrol 
     Checkpoint''.

     SEC. 4. REFERENCES.

       Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, 
     or other record of the United States to the checkpoint 
     described in section 3 shall be deemed to be a reference to 
     the ``Javier Vega, Jr. Border Patrol Checkpoint''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Barletta) and the gentlewoman from the District of 
Columbia (Ms. Norton) each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Pennsylvania.


                             General Leave

  Mr. BARLETTA. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and include 
extraneous material on S. 1617.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. BARLETTA. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  The Javier Vega, Jr. Memorial Act of 2017 would designate the Border 
Patrol checkpoint on United States Highway 77 North in Sarita, Texas, 
as the Javier Vega, Jr. Border Patrol Checkpoint.
  After serving his country honorably as a United States Marine, Agent 
Vega joined the United States Border Patrol in 2008. During his time in 
the United States Border Patrol, he served as a canine handler and was 
involved in 42 seizures of narcotics and 38 separate cases involving 
the apprehension of 238 illegal immigrants. He was a man of honor and 
duty, a man who loved his family, and a man who would give his life in 
service to his country.
  On August 3, 2014, in Raymondville, Texas, Agent Vega took his wife, 
three children, and parents out for a day of fishing. While fishing 
with his family, two illegal immigrants attempted to rob them.
  These illegal immigrants had been deported multiple times for various 
crimes. Law enforcement believed they had conducted a string of similar 
robberies at the behest of a Mexican cartel.
  Agent Vega sprung into action to defend his family. While drawing his 
firearm, Agent Vega was shot in the chest.

[[Page H7901]]

His father was also shot and wounded. Though his family did everything 
possible to help, Agent Vega, tragically, passed away.
  On September 20, 2016, Border Patrol determined that Agent Vega's 
actions were instinctive as a result of his law enforcement training. 
He did what law enforcement in America does: he put himself in harm's 
way. As a result, his death was determined to have been in the line of 
duty.
  This bill honors the service of Agent Vega. He made the ultimate 
sacrifice for his family and his country. Today, the House will name 
the Border Patrol checkpoint after him where he and his service dog, 
Goldie, served.
  Every day, the men and women of the United States Border Patrol put 
on their uniforms and put their lives on the line to protect America's 
borders. Tragically, as we see in the case of Agent Vega, even when 
spending time with family, they may be called to serve.
  On Sunday, President Trump unveiled immigration enforcement policies 
that will ensure other families will not have to face the devastating 
loss of a loved one at the hands of an illegal immigrant. I hope 
Congress can work together to make those proposals a reality. I believe 
it is more than fitting to name this checkpoint after Agent Javier 
Vega, Jr.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve 
the balance of my time.
  Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the remarks of my good friend from 
Pennsylvania, and I, too, rise in support of S. 1617, a bill to 
designate the checkpoint of the United States Border Patrol located on 
United States Highway 77 North in Sarita, Texas, as the Javier Vega, 
Jr. Border Patrol Checkpoint.
  Javier Vega, Jr., was killed in the line of duty on August 3, 2014, 
while trying to stop a criminal act and trying to protect his family in 
Raymondville, Texas. While fishing with his wife, with his children, 
and with his parents, two men approached him and tried to rob his 
family.
  Agent Vega attempted to stop the robbery by drawing his gun, and we 
know that Border Patrol agents may carry their guns when they are off 
duty because they are law enforcement officials. He was shot in the 
chest. Agent Vega was rushed to the hospital after he was shot but died 
soon thereafter.
  It was determined that Agent Vega was aware of a pattern of robberies 
in the area due to his role as a Border Patrol agent and that he 
identified himself as an agent before he was fatally shot. The U.S. 
Border Patrol considered those facts and later determined that Javier 
Vega, Jr., was murdered in the line of duty, ensuring that Agent Vega's 
name was enshrined at the Customs and Border Protection Valor Memorial.
  Agent Vega was a U.S. Marine veteran and had served with the United 
States Border Patrol for 6 years before his untimely death. He served 
his country with honor and distinction.
  Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this legislation honoring the life 
and death of Javier Vega, Jr., by naming this checkpoint after him. I 
urge my colleagues to pass S. 1617, and I yield back the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. BARLETTA. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Barletta) that the House suspend the 
rules and pass the bill, S. 1617.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



