

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 203 (Wednesday, December 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 203 (Wednesday, December 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7979]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         NOMINATION OF JAMES HO

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, this week, the Senate is continuing 
to consider President Trump's outstanding judicial nominees. Yesterday, 
we confirmed a talented individual to be a circuit court judge, and 
soon we will confirm another. Next, we will advance the nomination of 
James Ho to be a judge of the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals. Mr. Ho is 
another well-qualified individual, and, like all of President Trump's 
judicial nominees, he is dedicated to upholding the rule of law and 
serving as an impartial arbiter on the bench.
  Similar to Justice Willett, whom I discussed yesterday, Mr. Ho has an 
inspirational story. Immigrating to the United States from Taiwan at 
the age of 1, he learned English by watching ``Sesame Street.'' He went 
on to graduate from the University of Chicago Law School with high 
honors and earned a clerkship with Judge Jerry E. Smith of the Fifth 
Circuit. In 2001, Mr. Ho joined the Department of Justice as the 
Special Assistant to the Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights 
and later worked in the Office of Legal Counsel. In addition to his 
service in the executive branch, he worked here in the Senate as chief 
counsel for the Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on the Constitution. 
Afterward, he went across the street to clerk for Associate Justice 
Clarence Thomas.
  After his distinguished and successful legal career in Washington, 
Mr. Ho returned to Texas, joining a top law firm and specializing in 
appellate litigation. He then served as the solicitor general of Texas, 
succeeding our colleague Senator Ted Cruz. It was while he was serving 
in that role that he won the Supreme Court Best Brief Award from the 
National Association of Attorneys General. He went on to earn the award 
two more times. After his time in State government, Mr. Ho returned to 
his private practice firm and currently serves as the cochair of its 
appellate and constitutional law group. He has presented oral arguments 
in State and Federal courts around the country, including the Supreme 
Court.
  It is clear that Mr. Ho possesses impressive credentials, with the 
experience necessary to excel on the Fifth Circuit. He also earned the 
praise of prominent Democrats who believe he will make an excellent 
addition to the Federal court.
  Ron Kirk, the Obama administration's Trade Representative and the 
former mayor of Dallas, supported Mr. Ho's nomination to the Judiciary 
Committee. He wrote:

       Jim possesses the temperament, integrity, and intellect 
     that anyone, Republican or Democrat, should insist on in a 
     federal judge. He is wickedly smart, and is among the most 
     brilliant appellate lawyers in the United States. If there is 
     one thing that my liberal and conservative colleagues agree 
     on, it is that Jim just has it in his DNA to be a great 
     judge.

  A Commissioner on the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights appointed by 
President Obama also recommended Mr. Ho in a letter to the Judiciary 
Committee. She knows him from his volunteer work with the National 
Asian Pacific American Bar Association. She wrote that he ``has a 
strong reputation as an intelligent, reasonable, fair and principled 
lawyer.''
  I would like to commend President Trump for another very strong 
nomination. I would also like to express my gratitude to Chairman 
Grassley and the members of the Judiciary Committee for their work to 
process the President's judicial nominees.
  I look forward to advancing Mr. Ho's nomination soon.

                          ____________________



