

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 208 (Wednesday, December 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 208 (Wednesday, December 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S8181-S8182]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 515

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 515, a bill to 
require the Secretary of Labor to maintain a publicly available list of 
all employers that relocate a call center overseas, to make such 
companies ineligible for Federal grants or guaranteed loans, and to 
require disclosure of the physical location of business agents engaging 
in customer service communications, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1580

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1580, a bill to enhance the transparency, improve 
the coordination, and intensify the impact of assistance to support 
access to primary and secondary education for displaced children and 
persons, including women and girls, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1615

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1615, a bill to authorize the cancellation of removal and adjustment of 
status of certain individuals who are long-term United States residents 
and who entered the United States as children, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1693, a bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 
to clarify that section 230 of that Act does not prohibit the 
enforcement against providers and users of interactive computer 
services of Federal and State

[[Page S8182]]

criminal and civil law relating to sex trafficking.


                                S. 1774

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Kentucky 
(Mr. Paul) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1774, a bill to provide 
protections for workers with respect to their right to select or 
refrain from selecting representation by a labor organization.


                                S. 1914

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1914, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act in order to strengthen rules in case 
of competition for diabetic testing strips, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2070

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2070, a bill to 
amend the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, to 
reauthorize the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, and 
to promote initiatives that will reduce the risk of injury and death 
relating to the wandering characteristics of some children with autism.


                                S. 2105

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2105, a bill 
to modify the presumption of service connection for veterans who were 
exposed to herbicide agents while serving in the Armed Forces in 
Thailand during the Vietnam era, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2147

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2147, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to create a Pension 
Rehabilitation Trust Fund to establish a Pension Rehabilitation 
Administration within the Department of the Treasury to make loans to 
multiemployer defined benefit plans, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2152

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2152, a bill to amend title 18, 
United States Code, to provide for assistance for victims of child 
pornography, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2236

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2236, a bill to 
require covered discrimination and covered harassment awareness and 
prevention training for Members, officers, employees, interns, fellows, 
and detailees of Congress within 30 days of employment and annually 
thereafter, to require a biennial climate survey of Congress, to amend 
the enforcement process under the Office of Congressional Workplace 
Rights for covered discrimination and covered harassment complaints, 
and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



