

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 163 (Wednesday, October 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 163 (Wednesday, October 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7952-H7954]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             FREDERICK DOUGLASS BICENTENNIAL COMMISSION ACT

  Mr. RUSSELL. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 2989) to establish the Frederick Douglass Bicentennial 
Commission, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 2989

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Frederick Douglass 
     Bicentennial Commission Act''.

     SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

       Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) Born into slavery on the Eastern Shore of Maryland in 
     1818 and given the name Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey 
     after his mother Harriet Bailey, Frederick Douglass has been 
     called the father of the civil rights movement.
       (2) Douglass rose through determination, brilliance, and 
     eloquence to shape the American Nation. He was an 
     abolitionist, human rights and women's rights activist, 
     orator, author, journalist, publisher, and social reformer.
       (3) Taught basic reading skills by his mistress until she 
     was forced to stop, Douglass continued to teach himself to 
     read and write and taught other slaves to read despite risks 
     including death.
       (4) During the course of his remarkable life Frederick 
     Douglass escaped from slavery, became internationally 
     renowned for his eloquence in the cause of liberty, and went 
     on to serve the national government in several official 
     capacities.
       (5) Forced to leave the country to avoid arrest as an 
     escaped slave, he returned to become a staunch advocate of 
     the Union cause and helped recruit African-American troops 
     for the Union Army, including two of his sons, Charles and 
     Lewis Douglass. His personal relationship with Abraham 
     Lincoln helped persuade the President to make emancipation a 
     cause of the Civil War.
       (6) With the abolition of slavery at the close of the Civil 
     War, Douglass then turned his attention to the full 
     integration of African-Americans into the political and 
     economic life of the United States. Committed to freedom, 
     Douglass dedicated his life to achieving justice for all 
     Americans, in particular African-Americans, women, and 
     minority groups. He envisioned America as an inclusive Nation 
     strengthened by diversity and free of discrimination.
       (7) Douglass served as an advisor to Presidents. Abraham 
     Lincoln referred to him as the most meritorious man of the 
     nineteenth century. Douglass was appointed to several 
     offices. He served as the United States Marshal of the 
     District of Columbia under Rutherford B. Hayes' 
     administration; President James Garfield appointed Douglass 
     the District of Columbia Recorder of Deeds. In 1889, 
     President Benjamin Harrison appointed Frederick Douglass to 
     be the United States minister to Haiti. He was also appointed 
     by President Grant to serve as Assistant Secretary of the 
     Commission of Inquiry to Santo Domingo.
       (8) Douglass lived in the District of Columbia for 23 of 
     his 57 years as a free man, and in recognition of his 
     leadership and continuous fight for justice and freedom, his 
     home, Cedar Hill, was established as a National Historic Site 
     in Anacostia, in Southeast Washington, DC.
       (9) The statue of Frederick Douglass in the United States 
     Capitol is a gift from the almost 700,000 residents of the 
     District of Columbia.
       (10) All Americans could benefit from studying the life of 
     Frederick Douglass, for Douglass dedicated his own life to 
     ensuring freedom and equality for future generations of 
     Americans. This Nation should ensure that his tireless 
     struggle, transformative words, and inclusive vision of 
     humanity continue to inspire and sustain us.
       (11) The year 2018 marks the bicentennial anniversary of 
     the birth of Frederick Douglass, and a commission should be 
     established to plan, develop, and carry out, and to recommend 
     to Congress, programs and activities that are fitting and 
     proper to celebrate that anniversary in a manner that 
     appropriately honors Frederick Douglass.

     SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT.

       There is established a commission to be known as the 
     Frederick Douglass Bicentennial Commission (referred to in 
     this Act as the ``Commission'').

     SEC. 4. DUTIES.

       The Commission shall have the following duties:
       (1) To plan, develop, and carry out programs and activities 
     that are fitting and

[[Page H7953]]

     proper to honor Frederick Douglass on the occasion of the 
     bicentennial anniversary of Douglass' birth.
       (2) To recommend to Congress programs and activities that 
     the Commission considers fitting and proper to honor 
     Frederick Douglass on such occasion, and the entity or 
     entities in the Federal Government that the Commission 
     considers most appropriate to carry out such programs and 
     activities.

     SEC. 5. MEMBERSHIP.

       (a) Number and Appointment.--The Commission shall be 
     composed of 16 members appointed as follows:
       (1) Two members, each of whom shall be a qualified citizen 
     described in subsection (b), appointed by the President.
       (2) One member, who shall be a qualified citizen described 
     in subsection (b), appointed by the President on the 
     recommendation of the Governor of Maryland.
       (3) One member, who shall be a qualified citizen described 
     in subsection (b), appointed by the President on the 
     recommendation of the Governor of Massachusetts.
       (4) One member, who shall be a qualified citizen described 
     in subsection (b), appointed by the President on the 
     recommendation of the Governor of New York.
       (5) One member, who shall be a qualified citizen described 
     in subsection (b), appointed by the President on the 
     recommendation of the Mayor of the District of Columbia.
       (6) Three members, at least one of whom shall be a Member 
     of the House of Representatives, appointed by the Speaker of 
     the House of Representatives.
       (7) Three members, at least one of whom shall be a Senator, 
     appointed by the majority leader of the Senate.
       (8) Two members, at least one of whom shall be a Member of 
     the House of Representatives, appointed by the minority 
     leader of the House of Representatives.
       (9) Two members, at least one of whom shall be a Senator, 
     appointed by the minority leader of the Senate.
       (b) Qualified Citizen.--A qualified citizen described in 
     this subsection is a private citizen of the United States 
     with--
       (1) a demonstrated dedication to educating others about the 
     importance of historical figures and events; and
       (2) substantial knowledge and appreciation of Frederick 
     Douglass.
       (c) Time of Appointment.--Each initial appointment of a 
     member of the Commission shall be made before the expiration 
     of the 60-day period beginning on the date of the enactment 
     of this Act.
       (d) Continuation of Membership.--If a member of the 
     Commission was appointed to the Commission as a Member of 
     Congress, and ceases to be a Member of Congress, that member 
     may continue to serve on the Commission for not longer than 
     the 30-day period beginning on the date that member ceases to 
     be a Member of Congress.
       (e) Terms.--Each member shall be appointed for the life of 
     the Commission.
       (f) Vacancies.--A vacancy in the Commission shall not 
     affect the powers of the Commission but shall be filled in 
     the manner in which the original appointment was made.
       (g) Basic Pay.--Members shall serve on the Commission 
     without pay.
       (h) Travel Expenses.--Each member shall receive travel 
     expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in 
     accordance with sections 5702 and 5703 of title 5, United 
     States Code.
       (i) Quorum.--Six members of the Commission shall constitute 
     a quorum but a lesser number may hold hearings.
       (j) Chair.--The Commission shall select a Chair from among 
     the members of the Commission.
       (k) Meetings.--The Commission shall meet at the call of the 
     Chair. Periodically, the Commission shall hold a meeting in 
     Rochester, New York.

     SEC. 6. DIRECTOR AND STAFF.

       (a) Director.--The Commission may appoint and fix the pay 
     of a Director and such additional personnel as the Commission 
     considers to be appropriate.
       (b) Applicability of Certain Civil Service Laws.--
       (1) Director.--The Director of the Commission may be 
     appointed without regard to the provisions of title 5, United 
     States Code, governing appointments in the competitive 
     service, and may be paid without regard to the provisions of 
     chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of that title 
     relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates.
       (2) Staff.--The staff of the Commission shall be appointed 
     subject to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, 
     governing appointments in the competitive service, and shall 
     be paid in accordance with the provisions of chapter 51 and 
     subchapter III of chapter 53 of that title relating to 
     classification and General Schedule pay rates.

     SEC. 7. POWERS.

       (a) Hearings and Sessions.--The Commission may, for the 
     purpose of carrying out this Act, hold such hearings, sit and 
     act at such times and places, take such testimony, and 
     receive such evidence as the Commission considers to be 
     appropriate.
       (b) Powers of Members and Agents.--Any member or agent of 
     the Commission may, if authorized by the Commission, take any 
     action that the Commission is authorized to take by this Act.
       (c) Obtaining Official Data.--The Commission may secure 
     directly from any department or agency of the United States 
     information necessary to enable the Commission to carry out 
     this Act. Upon request of the Chair of the Commission, the 
     head of that department or agency shall furnish that 
     information to the Commission.
       (d) Mails.--The Commission may use the United States mails 
     in the same manner and under the same conditions as other 
     departments and agencies of the United States.
       (e) Administrative Support Services.--Upon the request of 
     the Commission, the Administrator of General Services shall 
     provide to the Commission, on a reimbursable basis, the 
     administrative support services necessary for the Commission 
     to carry out its responsibilities under this Act.
       (f) Gifts.--The Commission may solicit, accept, use, and 
     dispose of gifts, bequests, or devises of money or other 
     property for the purpose of carrying out its duties.
       (g) Volunteer and Uncompensated Services.--Notwithstanding 
     section 1342 of title 31, United States Code, the Commission 
     may accept and use voluntary and uncompensated services as 
     the Commission determines necessary.

     SEC. 8. REPORTS.

       (a) Initial Report.--Not later than August 1, 2018, the 
     Commission shall submit to Congress an initial report 
     containing its recommendations under section 4(2).
       (b) Final Report.--Not later than June 1, 2019, the 
     Commission shall submit a final report to Congress, and shall 
     include in the final report--
       (1) a summary of its activities and programs;
       (2) a final accounting of the funds the Commission received 
     and expended; and
       (3) any other information that the Commission considers to 
     be appropriate.

     SEC. 9. TERMINATION.

       The Commission shall terminate 30 days after submitting the 
     final report pursuant to section 8(b).

     SEC. 10. NO ADDITIONAL FUNDS AUTHORIZED.

       No Federal funds are authorized or may be obligated to 
     carry out this Act.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Oklahoma (Mr. Russell) and the gentlewoman from the District of 
Columbia (Ms. Norton) each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Oklahoma.


                             General Leave

  Mr. RUSSELL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and include 
extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Oklahoma?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. RUSSELL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I speak in support of H.R. 2989, the Frederick Douglass 
Bicentennial Commission Act, introduced by Ms. Norton of the District 
of Columbia and Mr. Harris earlier this year.
  Next year will mark the 200th anniversary of the birth of Frederick 
Douglass, a man who has been called the father--and rightfully so--of 
the civil rights movement.
  Douglass was born into slavery in Maryland around 1817 but escaped by 
the age of 21. Douglass went on to publish an autobiography documenting 
his life as a slave, called, ``Narrative of the Life of Frederick 
Douglass,'' while a fugitive slave.
  Throughout his remarkable life, Douglass advocated for justice for 
all Americans, encouraging President Lincoln to make emancipation a 
cause of the Civil War, and advocating for the full integration of 
African Americans into political and economic life in the United States 
both during and following the war.
  H.R. 2989 establishes the Frederick Douglass Bicentennial Commission 
to recommend the best ways to celebrate the legacy of a man who 
dedicated his entire life to ensuring freedom and equality for all 
Americans.
  H.R. 2989 would do this by creating a 16-member commission to plan, 
develop, and coordinate activities fitting and proper to honor Mr. 
Douglass. The commission will submit two reports to Congress with 
recommendations for activities, programs, and other important 
information. The commission will end 30 days after the submission of 
its final report.
  The amended text considered today adds a new section clarifying that 
the commission will not receive additional authorized funds and will, 
instead, rely on private funds for its operations.
  The commission presents an important opportunity to recognize and 
support Frederick Douglass' leadership and body of work. He was a 
phenomenal man, and I am proud to also be a cosponsor of this important 
bill.

[[Page H7954]]

  I would like to thank Ms. Norton, Mr. Harris, and the 16 other 
cosponsors for their hard work on this bill in honor of Frederick 
Douglass.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve 
the balance of my time.
  Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank the lead sponsor of this bill, Representative 
Andy Harris, for working closely with me on the bill of which I am a 
cosponsor, and I want to thank my good friend Representative Russell, 
who is managing on the other side, for also being a cosponsor of this 
bill.
  My thanks also to Chairman Trey Gowdy, Ranking Member Elijah 
Cummings, and Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy for bringing this bill to 
the floor in time to begin the commemoration, in 2018, of the 
bicentennial of the birth of Frederick Douglass.
  I am pleased that this bill has not only bipartisan, but bicameral 
support. Senators Chris Van Hollen and Ben Cardin have introduced the 
companion bill in the Senate.

                              {time}  1545

  The bill would establish a commission to plan and carry out programs 
and activities, as well as to recommend to Congress programs and 
activities that the Federal Government could undertake to honor and 
celebrate the life of Frederick Douglass during the bicentennial of his 
birth in 2018.
  Frederick Douglass was born into slavery in 1818 on the Eastern Shore 
of Maryland. He learned basic reading skills from his mistress and 
continued to teach himself and other slaves to read and write despite 
the risks he faced, including death. After two attempts, Douglass 
successfully escaped to New York and went on to become this country's 
leading abolitionist and antislavery lecturer.
  He served in several administrations, including as close adviser to 
President Abraham Lincoln, U.S. Marshal of the District of Columbia 
under President Rutherford B. Hayes, and District of Columbia Recorder 
of Deeds under President James Garfield. In 1889, President Benjamin 
Harris appointed Frederick Douglass to be the U.S. Minister to Haiti. 
He was later appointed by President Ulysses S. Grant to serve as 
secretary of the commission of Santo Domingo.
  Douglass dedicated his life to achieving justice for all Americans. 
He lived in the District of Columbia for 23 of his 57 years as a free 
man, and his home at Cedar Hill is an official National Historic Site 
in southeast Washington, D.C. Every year, thousands of Americans and 
others visit Cedar Hill. The Frederick Douglass statue that stands in 
his honor in the United States Capitol is a gift from the nearly 
700,000 residents of the District of Columbia.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this important 
legislation, and I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. RUSSELL. Mr. Speaker, it is my privilege to yield such time as he 
may consume to the gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Harris), who is the 
original cosponsor of this bill.
  Mr. HARRIS. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the committee for promptly 
reporting H.R. 2989 to the floor for consideration.
  I rise today in support of a bill I have cosponsored with Delegate 
Norton, the Frederick Douglass Bicentennial Commission Act. As we 
approach the 200th anniversary of Frederick Douglass' birth, I urge my 
colleagues in the House to support this legislation.
  The purpose of this bill is more than just honoring the birth of one 
great civil rights leader. Its purpose is to recognize his lasting 
impact on American Government, culture, and values. Frederick Douglass' 
work stretched far beyond the fight for legal freedom into the equally 
important fight for social and cultural equality.
  Born on Maryland's beautiful Eastern Shore, Douglass escaped slavery 
to become an author, abolitionist, and true American hero. Frederick 
Douglass is a model for the values that make our Nation great: 
equality, liberty, and a commitment to working hard and helping others.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to honor Frederick Douglass and the 
resounding impact his work has had on modern American culture by 
passing this legislation.
  Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I yield back 
the balance of my time.
  Mr. RUSSELL. Mr. Speaker, I would like to echo all of the comments 
that we heard. It is important that all of us take time and pause to 
recognize the tremendous work that Frederick Douglass did not only in 
his life, but how he impacted the United States of America.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the bill, and I yield back the 
balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr. Russell) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 2989, as amended.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



