

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9826-H9828]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  REAFFIRMING THE STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND 
                                 CANADA

  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and 
agree to the resolution (H. Res. 357) reaffirming the strategic 
partnership between the United States and Canada, recognizing bilateral 
cooperation that advances United States national interests, and urging 
increased bilateral cooperation on security, economic issues, and 
energy, and for other purposes, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the resolution.
  The text of the resolution is as follows:

                              H. Res. 357

       Whereas history, proximity, commerce, security, and shared 
     democratic values underpin a close relationship between the 
     United States and Canada;
       Whereas this year marks 150 years of the Canadian 
     Confederation;
       Whereas Americans and Canadians have the longest 
     international border and one of the largest commercial 
     relationships in the world, with $1.7 billion of trade and 
     nearly 400,000 people crossing the shared border daily;
       Whereas Canada is the United States second-largest trading 
     partner and the largest export destination for United States 
     goods and services, and a majority of States of the United 
     States consider Canada their top export destination, with 15 
     States counting Canada as their top point of origin for 
     imports;
       Whereas the United States and Canada cooperate extensively 
     within the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), and 
     through a ``Tri-Command Framework'' with United States 
     Northern Command (NORTHCOM), Canadian Joint Operations 
     Command (CJOC), and North American Aerospace Defense Command 
     (NORAD);
       Whereas Canada has been a critical ally of the United 
     States in the global war on terror, deploying approximately 
     2,800 Canadian troops in the NATO-led International Security 
     Assistance Force (ISAF) in Afghanistan from 2006-2011, the 
     fifth-largest national contingent in the ISAF;
       Whereas 158 Canadian Armed Forces personnel bravely gave 
     their lives while participating in the ISAF in Afghanistan;
       Whereas Canada has 830 Canadian Armed Forces personnel 
     currently serving in the Middle East in support of the United 
     States-led coalition to counter the Islamic State;
       Whereas longstanding bilateral border security cooperation 
     between the United States and Canada protects vital United 
     States security interests while promoting trade and travel;
       Whereas the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, Beyond 
     the Border Initiative, United States-Canada NEXUS Trusted 
     Traveler Program, Border Enforcement Security Taskforces 
     (BEST), Shiprider Integrated Cross Border Maritime Law 
     Enforcement program, Cross Border Crime Forum, Integrated 
     Border Enforcement Teams, and United States preclearance 
     operations conducted at eight Canadian airports enhance 
     United States-Canadian border security efforts;
       Whereas Canada is the world's sixth-largest petroleum 
     producer in the world and is the United States largest 
     foreign supplier of energy, including oil, uranium, natural 
     gas, and electricity;
       Whereas Canada is the largest source of imported oil for 
     United States refineries and while the United States produces 
     90 percent of the natural gas it uses, of the remaining 
     natural gas that the United States imports, 97 percent comes 
     from Canada;
       Whereas Canada is a net exporter of electricity to the 
     United States, with more than 30 active electricity 
     transmission connectors between the two countries;
       Whereas Canada is a strategic leader in international 
     affairs, a member of the G7 and G20, and an important voice 
     for democratic principles, market-oriented policies, and 
     human rights in the United Nations, Organization for Economic 
     Co-operation and Development (OECD), and Organization of 
     American States; and
       Whereas, on February 13, 2017, President Donald Trump and 
     Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada held their first 
     official meeting and reaffirmed the importance of the United 
     States-Canadian relationship: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the House of Representatives--
       (1) reaffirms its robust commitment to the critical 
     importance of the United States-Canadian partnership;
       (2) supports stronger trade relations with the Government 
     of Canada and the creation of more American jobs;
       (3) encourages greater security collaboration in the areas 
     of defense, border security, cyber-security, and Arctic 
     security; and
       (4) supports an increased focus on energy security through 
     greater energy infrastructure integration, including oil and 
     natural gas and renewable sources, planning, and 
     coordination.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Royce) and the gentleman from New York (Mr. Engel) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.


                             General Leave

  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that 
all Members may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their 
remarks and include any extraneous material in the Record.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from California?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I just want to recognize the leadership of Mr. Duncan, 
who, until recently, served as the chairman of the Western Hemisphere 
Subcommittee, and Mr. Gregory Meeks, the ranking member, in bringing 
this important resolution forward.
  I also want to recognize Mr. Huizenga, chairman of the Capital 
Markets, Securities, and Investments Subcommittee of the Financial 
Services Committee, who led the delegation this past fall with the 
Canada-United States Inter-Parliamentary Group in Windsor, Canada.
  This resolution affirms the already strong partnership we enjoy with 
our neighbors to the north, while recognizing that this bilateral 
relationship has advanced U.S. national interests.
  Canada and the U.S. share the longest international border of any 
countries in the world. Canada is one of the largest trading partners 
with the U.S., and our largest agricultural export market. U.S. exports 
of goods and services to Canada supported 1.6 million jobs in the 
United States last year.
  In addition, the U.S. and Canada enjoy a very close and vital 
security

[[Page H9827]]

relationship, which is seen most acutely in our close border security 
collaboration, as well as in defense arrangements such as NORAD and our 
shared NATO mutual security commitments.
  Our two countries have an exceptionally close energy relationship. 
Canada is our largest supplier of oil, natural gas, electricity, and 
uranium. Our two countries collaborate on environmental concerns, 
particularly with our shared responsibility for the Great Lakes, which 
are the world's largest freshwater ecosystem and contain 20 percent of 
the Earth's surface freshwater.
  This relationship gives Congress the opportunity to reaffirm, through 
this resolution, our important and close bilateral ties with Canada and 
to renew our commitment to growing and improving that relationship to 
the benefit of both countries.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in support of this 
measure, and I reserve the balance of my time.

                                         House of Representatives,


                                 Committee on Foreign Affairs,

                                 Washington, DC, December 8, 2017.
     Hon. Kevin Brady,
     Chairman, Committee on Ways and Means,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Brady: Thank you for consulting with the 
     Foreign Affairs Committee and agreeing to forgo a sequential 
     referral request on House Resolution 357, Reaffirming the 
     strategic partnership between the United States and Canada, 
     so that the resolution may proceed expeditiously to the House 
     floor.
       I agree that your forgoing further action on this measure 
     does not in any way diminish or alter the jurisdiction of 
     your committee, or prejudice its jurisdictional prerogatives 
     on this resolution or similar legislation in the future.
       I will seek to place our letters on H. Res. 357 into the 
     Congressional Record during floor consideration. I appreciate 
     your cooperation regarding this legislation and look forward 
     to continuing to work together as this measure moves through 
     the legislative process.
           Sincerely,
                                                  Edward R. Royce,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                                  Committee on Ways and Means,

                                Washington, DC, December 11, 2017.
     Hon. Edward R. Royce,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Royce:, I am writing with respect to H. Res. 
     357, reaffirming the strategic partnership between the United 
     States and Canada, on which the Committee on Ways and Means 
     was granted an additional referral.
       As a result of your having consulted with us on H. Res 357, 
     I agree to waive formal consideration of this resolution so 
     that it may move expeditiously to the floor. The Committee on 
     Ways and Means takes this action with the mutual 
     understanding that we do not waive any jurisdiction over the 
     subject matter contained in this or similar legislation, and 
     the Committee will be appropriately consulted and involved as 
     the resolution or similar legislation moves forward so that 
     we may address any remaining issues that fall within our 
     jurisdiction.
       Finally, I would appreciate your response to this letter 
     confirming this understanding, and would ask that a copy of 
     our exchange of letters on this matter be included in the 
     Congressional Record during floor consideration of H. Res 
     357.
           Sincerely,
                                                      Kevin Brady,
                                                         Chairman.

  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this measure.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to, first of all, thank the gentleman from South 
Carolina (Mr. Duncan), who, until recently, was the chairman of the 
Western Hemisphere Subcommittee. We will have him back on the committee 
any time he wants to come. I thank him for authorizing this resolution 
reaffirming the importance of the strategic partnership between the 
United States and Canada.
  I also appreciate the efforts of my good friend Mr. Meeks as the lead 
Democratic sponsor, and again, I thank Chairman Royce for working to 
bring this measure to the House floor.

                              {time}  1600

  It is only appropriate, after spending time on the House floor 
discussing the importance of the U.S. relationship of our neighbor to 
the South, that we also focus on the strategic partnership between the 
United States and our neighbor to the North, which, of course, is 
Canada.
  Canada is our second largest trading partner. Interesting, Canada is 
our second largest trading partner--and Mexico is our third largest 
trading partner--with about $1.7 billion in goods and services and 
400,000 citizens in both countries crossing the border on a daily 
basis. Think about that, 400,000 citizens from both countries cross the 
U.S.-Canadian border on a daily basis.
  The preclearance process makes it easy for Americans traveling to 
Canada to clear U.S. customs while at a number of airports in Canada 
and arrive back home almost as if they were on a domestic flight. Of 
course, our relationship goes far beyond commerce and tourism, and I am 
particularly pleased that H. Res. 357 takes note of the extensive 
cooperation between the United States and Canada at NATO.
  Canada has been and remains a key U.S. ally in several international 
conflicts around the world, including in Afghanistan, where Canada 
employed 2,800 troops to the NATO-led International Security Assistance 
Force from 2006 to 2011.
  I also want to note the crucial role that Canada has played in 
holding Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro and his lackeys accountable 
through both multilateral action at the OAS--Organization of American 
States--and targeted sanctions. Most recently, I was very pleased that 
Canadian Foreign Minister Freeland hosted the Lima Group in Toronto in 
October.
  Mr. Speaker, unfortunately, the U.S.-Canada relationship needs to be 
rejuvenated, needs to not be taken for granted. We have to work at that 
over time, and I think it is important that we all work at that.
  As a global entity, the U.S.-Canada relationship should be a 
relatively even one to manage. We don't want to have jobs at risk by 
creating a trade war with Canada. Trade disputes between two big 
neighbors are normal. We should not be escalating manageable 
disagreements in a way that could hurt workers in both of our 
countries.
  So I believe that we should let all the leaders know that the House 
is leading the way, and we hope that everyone follows Congress' lead 
today in affirming the importance of the U.S.-Canada relationship.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the 
gentleman from South Carolina (Mr. Duncan). He is the author of this 
resolution.
  Mr. DUNCAN of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman and 
the Foreign Affairs Committee for helping move this resolution.
  Mr. Speaker, being the former chairman of the Western Hemisphere 
Subcommittee on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I rise to 
encourage the passage of H. Res. 357 to reaffirm the strategic 
partnership between the United States and Canada.
  As my good friend and former United States Ambassador to Canada, 
David Wilkins taught me that Canada is one of our strongest allies and 
one of our largest and best trading partners, and we are dependent on 
cooperation between the nations to promote trade, security, and energy 
issues.
  It is imperative that we protect the close partnership with Canada 
and the interdependent North American energy market. Enforcing the 
strength of our relationship with Canada would expand the size of our 
energy market, create more jobs, reduce energy cost for consumers, and 
enhance North American energy security and interdependence. I remind 
the administration that energy issues should be a top priority in any 
NAFTA negotiation, as Canada is the largest supplier of energy to the 
United States. Now, this includes oil, uranium, natural gas, and 
electricity.
  We share the longest undefended border, the largest bilateral trading 
relationship, and one of the deepest security and energy partnerships 
in the world. Today, 32 States consider Canada their primary trading 
partner. The comprehensive trade and investment relationship, which the 
United States has with Canada, supports millions of jobs in goods and 
services on both sides of the border. The importance of this bilateral 
relationship is critical for both countries.
  Let me conclude by saying it is vital that we continue to look for 
ways to strengthen our relationship with Canada, and I hope that my 
colleagues will support this resolution to reaffirm the importance of 
U.S.-Canada relations.
  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

[[Page H9828]]

  Mr. Speaker, in closing, let me say that this year marks the 150th 
anniversary of the Canadian Confederation. So it is appropriate that we 
are considering this important resolution on the House floor before 
2017 comes to a close.
  As was said by all the other Members, the U.S. and Canada share so 
much more than just our extensive borders and daily commerce. We share 
people-to-people ties that run generations deep and continue on a daily 
basis.
  Today, by passing H. Res. 357, Congress has an opportunity to show 
our commitment to and gratitude for the U.S.-Canada relationship. We 
also have an opportunity to show the world how two nations can get 
along with miles and miles of continuous borders.
  I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important 
resolution. I again thank Chairman Royce and the former chairman of the 
Western Hemisphere Subcommittee for their work.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to once again thank Representative Duncan and Mr. 
Meeks and Mr. Huizenga and Mr. Engel for their commitment to the U.S.-
Canada relationship and for bringing this important resolution forward.
  This resolution affirms the already strong partnership that we enjoy 
with our neighbors to the North while recognizing that this bilateral 
relationship has advanced our national interests.
  In addition to working together on trade, on border security, on 
energy, Canada is also a valuable partner in security. As my colleagues 
know, Canada is a founding member of NATO and leads a NATO battalion in 
Latvia--I happen to have seen that battalion recently in Latvia--while 
maintaining 200 Canadian military trainers in Ukraine.
  Our shared values and proximity have rendered Canada one of our most 
important allies, and this resolution allows this body to stand 
together in affirming that relationship. I urge my colleagues to 
support this important resolution.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Poe of Texas). The question is on the 
motion offered by the gentleman from California (Mr. Royce) that the 
House suspend the rules and agree to the resolution, H. Res. 357, as 
amended.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the resolution, as amended, was agreed to.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



