

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 206 (Monday, December 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 206 (Monday, December 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8069]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES


                    Sergeant Jonathon Michael Hunter

  Mr. DONNELLY. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize and honor the 
extraordinary service and sacrifice of U.S. Army SGT Jonathon Michael 
Hunter of Columbus, IN. Dedication to his country, loyalty to his 
fellow servicemembers, and a deep love for his family were the 
qualities that defined Jonathon's life.
  Jonathon graduated from Columbus East High School in 2011. While in 
high school, Jonathon played football for 4 years and was described by 
his coach as an unselfish player who put the team first. After high 
school, Jonathon pursued his dream of becoming a music producer in 
Nashville, TN, before enrolling at Indiana State University in Terre 
Haute, where he studied criminology and business. A selfless young man, 
Jonathon left college to join the Army.
  In the Army, he was a member of the 1st Brigade Combat Team, 82nd 
Airborne Division in Fort Bragg, NC. There he distinguished himself 
among his fellow soldiers as cheerful and a man of faith, who loved his 
country and fellow servicemembers. Jonathon enlisted in the Army 
because of his intense love for his country and wanted to make a 
difference in the lives of his fellow countrymen.
  On Wednesday, August 2, 2017, Jonathon and one other American soldier 
were tragically killed in a suicide bombing attack on a NATO convoy in 
southern Afghanistan, a mere 32 days into his first deployment. Among 
some of the awards he earned for his service were a Purple Heart, 
Bronze Star, NATO Medal, the Army Good Conduct Medal, and Combat 
Infantry Badge. Jonathon was also a proud paratrooper who earned the 
German Parachutist Badge and was also an expert marksman.
  Jonathon put his life on the line in order to protect his country, 
and we are forever grateful for his service.
  Jonathon was a devoted patriot, son, and husband. He is survived and 
will be deeply missed by his wife, Whitney; his parents Mark Hunter of 
Columbus and Kimberly and Brian Thompson of Nashville, IN; his brother, 
Marcus Hunter; his sisters Lindsey--and her husband, Andy--England and 
Kelsey Thompson; his grandparents Jack and Linda Gilbert, Keith and 
Beulah Thompson, and Theola Hunter; as well as many relatives, friends, 
his U.S. Army family, and Hoosiers from across our great State.
  Jonathon set an example for others and will be remembered for his 
strong, selfless character and his drive to fight for justice and to 
make the world a better, more peaceful place. Let us remember and 
emulate the shining example this brave man set for us and honor his 
commitment to serving his fellow citizens. May God welcome Jonathon 
home and give comfort to his family.

                          ____________________



