

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 192 (Monday, November 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 192 (Monday, November 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7331]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC HEALTH THANK YOU DAY

  Mr. BOOKER. Mr. President, today I wish to express my gratitude for a 
community of individuals who are unfailing in their commitment to 
protecting the public health in my home State of New Jersey, across the 
United States, and abroad. From preventing chronic disease to 
responding to pandemics, epidemics, and natural disasters, to ensuring 
our Nation is prepared in the event of bioterrorist attacks, to 
reducing health disparities in ways that promote access, participation, 
and opportunity, the extraordinary and diverse contributions of public 
health professionals have profound impacts on American lives.
  The breadth of functions for which public health departments are 
responsible and the depth of expertise the public health workforce 
possesses are truly remarkable. Among their many responsibilities 
include Zika response and awareness; ensuring restaurants, local parks, 
and other venues are safe and clean; monitoring air and water quality; 
tracing and containing disease outbreaks; conducting health screenings; 
providing health education; investigating potential cancer clusters; 
fielding questions on everything from animal welfare to newborn 
screening, and the list goes on.
  The importance of public health research and practice is clearly 
evident as neglected diseases of poverty emerge and spread in the U.S. 
While these bacterial and parasitic infections primarily affect low- 
and middle-income countries in Africa, Asia, and Latin America, they 
are increasingly evident in the U.S. In fact, illnesses including Zika, 
toxoplasmosis, and Chagas disease have collectively impacted millions 
of Americans. Despite significant gaps in awareness and resources, our 
public health workforce has made great strides in monitoring and 
preventing these diseases; their efforts benefit both Americans and 
communities across the globe.
  Placing a high priority on public health not only improves quality of 
life, it helps drive economic growth. By preventing disease and 
promoting healthy behaviors, we can reduce both direct healthcare costs 
and economic losses due to reduced productivity. The fiscal benefits of 
public health are clear--according to the American Public Health 
Association, every dollar we spend on childhood vaccinations saves 
$16.50 in future health costs. Additionally, an estimated 75 percent of 
health spending in the U.S. is related to preventable chronic 
diseases--investing in community health initiatives that reduce the 
rates of obesity, heart disease, and diabetes saves both money and 
lives.
  It is with gratitude for their invaluable contributions to the health 
and security of communities across New Jersey, our Nation, and the 
world, that I recognize Public Health Thank You Day on Monday, November 
20, 2017.

                          ____________________



