

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6989-S6990]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  JUDICIAL NOMINATIONS AND TAX REFORM

  Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, this week, we have the unique opportunity 
to move forward on promises we made to the American people last year, 
confirming judges and providing tax relief to hard-working Americans. 
The American people sent us to Congress to complete this critical work, 
and we must stop at nothing to do it. We have already taken significant 
steps to address both of these issues by confirming 13 judges, with 5 
more this week, and passing a budget with instructions for tax reform.
  There is still much more that we need to do, and I stand ready to 
stay here until that job is done. Most people can't go home until their 
work is finished; I don't think we should either. Imagine dropping your 
car off at the auto mechanic and, instead of staying to finish the job, 
they leave at 3 p.m. to go home because that is convenient for their 
schedule; yet you still have to pay them for a full day's work. That is 
effectively what we have been doing here in Congress, and that needs to 
stop. We need to work as much as possible to ensure that the Federal 
judiciary is filled with judges that will uphold the Constitution and 
bring us closer to providing tax relief for the American people.
  We need to have a fully occupied, fully functioning Federal judiciary 
to ensure that Americans' constitutional rights are upheld. In almost 
10 months, we have started to address the issue of judicial vacancies 
by confirming 13 judges, most notably Justice Gorsuch, who has already 
served as a strong, conservative voice on the Supreme Court. As a 
fellow westerner, I was proud to vote for such a qualified judge to 
serve in our Nation's highest Court.
  Beyond the vacancy we filled on the Supreme Court, there are 
vacancies on all levels of our Federal judiciary. We cannot forget the 
importance of every single court that makes up the Federal system. We 
must prioritize confirming judges to fill these openings, especially 
those deemed judicial emergencies. The fact that we have so many 
judicial emergencies is incredibly concerning and should be a wake-up 
call to all Senators, especially those who are slowing down this 
important process.
  The President is continuing to send us well-qualified nominees, and 
Chairman Grassley has done an excellent job of moving nominees through 
the committee process. I am especially encouraged that this week we are 
confirming five more judges, including four circuit court judges. This 
is the pace we need to keep. If that means working 24/7 to continue 
confirming these constitutionalists, you can count me in. Confirming 
Federal judges is a unique duty of the U.S. Senate, and we cannot allow 
obstructionism from the other side of the aisle to prevent us from 
filling vacancies throughout the country.
  It is clear that when judges are brought to the floor for a vote by a 
healthy majority, the gridlock being caused is purely political. 
Because of this, leadership is having to file cloture on all of these 
judicial nominees, and some of my colleagues across the aisle

[[Page S6990]]

are just running the debate clock on these nominees instead of actually 
debating. We have what is known as a 1-hour rule in the Senate, and I 
think it is time to start enforcing it.
  Members are entitled to their opinions, and, as the deliberative 
body, we should debate nominees. But if you are going to debate a 
nominee, I think you actually need to come here and speak about them. 
You can't just hide behind your desk and run the debate clock. If you 
have a problem with a nominee, then you should come to the floor and 
voice your concerns. If you are not willing to do this, then you 
shouldn't hold this nominee hostage to an artificial clock. This is 
what is wrong in Washington. We should use debate time on a nominee to 
debate the nominee, and if there is no more debate, then we should vote 
on that nominee and move on to the next one.
  The Constitution guarantees the right to a speedy trial. As the body 
that confirms judges to make that constitutional right possible, we 
have a critical responsibility, and we need to do whatever it takes to 
fulfill this duty. In order to deliver swift justice throughout the 
country, these seats need to be filled.

  I am ready and willing to work day and night, weekends and holidays, 
to do what Nevadans sent me to Washington to do and to accomplish. As 
the leader mentioned last week, we should work through the week of 
Thanksgiving. Hard-working Americans don't go home until their work is 
complete, and neither should we. That work also includes reforming our 
Tax Code, providing desperately needed relief to the middle class.
  Today Chairman Brady and the Ways and Means Committee released a 
draft of their tax bill, which is another enormous step forward in 
providing meaningful tax relief to Nevadans and other hard-working 
Americans across this country. Middle-class tax relief is particularly 
critical to the residents of my home State of Nevada. Whether it is the 
single mother from Gardnerville who doesn't receive child support, 
works full time, and is simply trying to make ends meet or the 
entrepreneur in Elko who is fighting hard to get his small business off 
the ground and wondering whether he will ever catch a break and be able 
to afford his first employee, I continue to hear from diligent, hard-
working Nevada families and small business owners who are struggling to 
cover their expenses and get ahead in life.
  For too many people, the American dream--previously achievable 
through hard work, sheer determination, and playing by the rules--feels 
as though it is slipping away. That is in part because, for too long, 
Nevadans and Americans across this country have faced stagnant wages 
and slow economic growth.
  Under the failed economic policies of the previous administration, we 
have suffered through 8 years of historically low economic growth. In 
fact, in those 8 years, we didn't have a single year in which the 
economy grew by 3 percent. As a result, wages and workers suffered. As 
a result, job creation suffered. And as a result, middle-class 
Americans like you and your neighbors suffered.
  We still bear the scars of the Obama-era economic policies today. 
Median household incomes in Nevada are $7,000 lower today than they 
were 10 years ago. Nevada families are more likely to be living 
paycheck to paycheck than families living in nearly every other State. 
It is fair to say--in Nevada at least--the recession has never really 
ended. To me, this situation is unacceptable. I am doing everything in 
my power to right the economic wrongs that have been committed by the 
previous administration.
  Under the leadership of the new administration, however, we are 
starting to see our economy improve. There are positive signs 
everywhere. Last week, the Commerce Department announced that for the 
second quarter in a row, the economy had grown by at least 3 percent. 
This impressive growth occurred despite hurricanes that destroyed the 
homes and businesses of our good friends and colleagues in Texas and in 
Florida. Despite these natural disasters, if 3 percent economic growth 
is possible under the leadership of President Trump and a unified 
Republican government, just think about how much more we can add to 
this growth by passing comprehensive tax reform.
  As a member of that tax writing committee, I have been working with 
my colleagues to craft a tax package that accomplishes three major 
goals: First, create more jobs; second, increase wages; and third, 
boost Americans' competitiveness worldwide.
  What does tax relief mean to you, the average Nevadan who works hard 
and is trying to provide a better life for his or her children and save 
for a secure retirement? It means cutting your taxes so that you can 
keep more of your hard-earned money. It means a bigger child tax credit 
to help you confront the increasing costs of raising children. It means 
a simpler and fairer tax code that you yourself can understand. Lower 
rates for business mean more jobs, higher wages, and growth in our 
communities--all of which will benefit you. Taken together, all these 
things mean that you will have a profound increase in your take-home 
pay and your economic opportunities.
  A recent study by the White House Council of Economic Advisers found 
that reducing the corporate tax rate by 15 percent alone would increase 
household incomes by an average of $4,000. A similar study by a Boston 
University economist put the increase at $3,500. I don't know about 
you, but I think the average American could do a lot with an additional 
$3,500 to $4,000 in his or her bank account.
  As a son of a school cook and an auto mechanic, I understand the 
discipline and the hard work that go into every dollar and every 
paycheck, and I am working to see that you have more of it in your back 
pocket. I am confident that we will fulfill these promises, but that 
will take a commitment from our colleagues to stay here and work.
  In addition to overhauling the Tax Code and confirming judges, we 
have many other significant legislative responsibilities to complete. I 
believe we must spend as much time as necessary, including working 
through the scheduled November constituent work period, to fulfill our 
commitment to the American people.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



