

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7213]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF COMMITTEES

  The following executive reports of nominations were submitted:

       By Mr. CORKER for the Committee on Foreign Relations.
       *Rebecca Eliza Gonzales, of Texas, a Career Member of the 
     Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be 
     Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United 
     States of America to the Kingdom of Lesotho.
       Nominee: Rebecca Eliza Gonzales.
       Post: LESOTHO.
       (The following is a list of all members of my immediate 
     family and their spouses. I have asked each of these persons 
     to inform me of the pertinent contributions made by them. To 
     the best of my knowledge, the information contained in this 
     report is complete and accurate.)
       Contributions, amount, date, donee:
       1. Self: None.
       2. James Mahlangu: Spouse: None.
       3. Imagine Gonzales: Minor child--son: None.
       4. Parents: Estella Gonzales: None; Jose Rene Gonzales 
     (deceased): None.
       5. Rebecca Balli Ybarra--None; Henry Ybarra--None; Juan 
     Gonzalez--None; Guadalupe Gonzalez--None. My grandparents are 
     deceased.
       6. Jerome Rene Gonzales: Brother: None; Amanda Lucia 
     Gonzales: Sister-in-Law: None.
       * Lisa A. Johnson, of Washington, a Career Member of the 
     Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador 
     Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of 
     America to the Republic of Namibia
       Nominee: Lisa A. Johnson.
       Post: U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of Namibia.
       (The following is a list of all members of my immediate 
     family and their spouses. I have asked each of these persons 
     to inform me of the pertinent contributions made by them. To 
     the best of my knowledge, the information contained in this 
     report is complete and accurate.)
       Contributions, amount, date, and donee:
       1. Self: None.
       2. Spouse: N/A.
       3. Children and Spouses: N/A.
       4. Parents: Melville Richard Johnson, none; Stephanie 
     JoAnne Johnson, none.
       5. Grandparents: Herbert Richard Johnson--Deceased; Cora 
     Alice Johnson--deceased; Ralph Williams--deceased; Delores 
     Violet Williams--deceased.
       6. Brothers and Spouses: Michael Richard Johnson (brother), 
     none; Christina Oliva Johnson (his spouse), none.
       7. Sisters and Spouses: N/A.
       *Irwin Steven Goldstein, of New York, to be Under Secretary 
     of State for Public Diplomacy.
       *Sean P. Lawler, of Maryland, to be Chief of Protocol, and 
     to have the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service.

  Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, for the Committee on Foreign Relations I 
report favorably the following nomination lists which were printed in 
the Records on the dates indicated, and ask unanimous consent, to save 
the expense of reprinting on the Executive Calendar that these 
nominations lie at the Secretary's desk for the information of 
Senators.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

       *Foreign Service nominations beginning with Lisa-Felicia 
     Afi Akorli and ending with Stephanie P. Wilson, which 
     nominations were received by the Senate and appeared in the 
     Congressional Record on November 1, 2017.
       *Foreign Service nominations beginning with John R. Bass II 
     and ending with Sung Y. Kim, which nominations were received 
     by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on 
     November 1, 2017.
       By Mr McCain for the Committee on Armed Services.
       R. D. James, of Missouri, to be an Assistant Secretary of 
     the Army.
       *Robert H. McMahon, of Georgia, to be an Assistant 
     Secretary of Defense.
       *Bruce D. Jette, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary 
     of the Army.
       *Shon J. Manasco, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of 
     the Air Force.
       By Mr. JOHNSON for the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
       *Kirstjen Nielsen, of Virginia, to be Secretary of Homeland 
     Security.

  *Nomination was reported with recommendation that it be confirmed 
subject to the nominee's commitment to respond to requests to appear 
and testify before any duly constituted committee of the Senate.
  (Nominations without an asterisk were reported with the 
recommendation that they be confirmed.)

                          ____________________



