

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 192 (Monday, November 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 192 (Monday, November 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7332]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              RECOGNIZING PLEASANT VIEW ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

  Mr. DONNELLY. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize Pleasant View 
Elementary School of Zionsville, IN, for being named a 2017 National 
Blue Ribbon School by the U.S. Department of Education.
  Established in 1982, the National Blue Ribbon Schools Program 
recognizes schools that have demonstrated a vision of educational 
excellence for all students, regardless of their social or economic 
background. Since its inception, this program has offered the 
opportunity for schools in every State to gain recognition for 
educational accomplishments in closing the achievement gaps among 
students.
  Zionsville's Pleasant View Elementary School serves over 800 students 
from preschool through fourth grade. In addition to the core 
curriculum, the school provides many different learning opportunities 
for students before and after school, including language enrichment, 
music, and robotics programs. Pleasant View Elementary seeks to tailor 
instruction to meet students' individual learning styles and provide 
hands-on learning experiences. Pleasant View prides itself on creating 
a nurturing and collaborative learning environment where teachers, 
students, and parents work together so that all students can reach 
their potential. Teachers are encouraged to come up with new ideas to 
foster student growth through research-based practices to empower 
students and help them develop useful life skills. At Pleasant View, 
teachers understand that education is not one size fits all and that 
each student has their own unique way to learn.
  Pleasant View Elementary maintains a high standard for academic 
excellence, driven by the success of a rigorous curriculum, innovative 
instructional practices, and a highly qualified and dedicated staff. 
Faculty works closely with parents to ensure their children are 
receiving a quality education. The parent teacher organization also 
creates community and campus events to further enrich students 
academically and socially. Pleasant View Elementary School's dedication 
to student achievement and positive atmosphere have been key to its 
success. The school's staff and families work together to teach and 
foster values that develop strong character and better the community.
  I am proud to recognize Pleasant View Elementary School principal 
Stacy Smith, the entire staff, the student body, and their families. 
The effort, dedication, and value you put into education has led not 
only to this prestigious recognition, but will benefit you and the 
Zionsville community well into the future.
  On behalf of the citizens of Indiana, I congratulate Pleasant View 
Elementary School, and I wish the students and staff continued success 
in the future.

                          ____________________



