

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 193 (Tuesday, November 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 193 (Tuesday, November 28, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7361-S7362]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 109

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) was added as a cosponsor of S. 109, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for coverage 
under the Medicare program of pharmacist services.


                                 S. 170

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 170, a bill to 
provide for nonpreemption of measures by State and local governments to 
divest from entities that engage in commerce-related or investment-
related boycott, divestment, or sanctions activities targeting Israel, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 251

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 251, a bill to repeal the 
Independent Payment Advisory Board in order to ensure that it cannot be 
used to undermine the Medicare entitlement for beneficiaries.


                                 S. 261

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 261, a bill to amend the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to improve and clarify certain 
disclosure requirements for restaurants and similar retail food 
establishments, and to amend the authority to bring proceedings under 
section 403A.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill 
to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare 
coverage of certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of 
durable medical equipment.


                                 S. 629

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 629, a bill to amend 
the Federal Food, Drugs, and Cosmetic Act to ensure the safety and 
effectiveness of medically important antimicrobials approved for use in 
the prevention, control, and treatment of animal diseases, in order to 
minimize the development of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 720, a bill to 
amend the Export Administration Act of 1979 to include in the 
prohibitions on boycotts against allies of the United States boycotts 
fostered by international governmental organizations against Israel and 
to direct the Export-Import Bank of the United States to oppose 
boycotts against Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 793

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 793, a bill to prohibit 
sale of shark fins, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 796

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 796, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the exclusion for 
employer-provided education assistance to employer payments of student 
loans.


                                S. 1034

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1034, a bill to 
improve agricultural job opportunities, benefits, and security for 
aliens in the United States, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1050, a bill to 
award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the Chinese-American 
Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated service 
during World War II.


                                S. 1364

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the names of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito), the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Portman) and the 
Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein) were added as cosponsors of S. 
1364, a bill to establish within the Smithsonian Institution the 
National Museum of the American Latino, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1539

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1539, a bill to 
protect victims of stalking from gun violence.


                                S. 1580

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1580, a bill to enhance 
the transparency, improve the coordination, and intensify the impact of 
assistance to support access to primary and secondary education for 
displaced children and persons, including women and girls, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1647

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1647, a bill to 
require the appropriate Federal banking agencies to treat certain non-
significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial 
institutions as qualifying capital instruments, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) and the Senator from West Virginia (Mr. Manchin) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1693, a bill to amend the Communications Act of 
1934 to clarify that section 230 of that Act does not prohibit the 
enforcement against providers and users of interactive computer 
services of Federal and State criminal and civil law relating to sex 
trafficking.


                                S. 1732

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1732, a bill to 
amend title XI of the Social Security Act to promote testing of 
incentive payments for behavioral health providers for adoption and use 
of certified electronic health record technology.


                                S. 1859

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. McCain) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1859, a bill to extend the 
moratorium on the annual fee on health insurance providers.


                                S. 1873

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the names of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Brown) and the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1873, a bill to require the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs to carry out a program to establish peer specialists in patient 
aligned care teams at medical centers of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1942

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1942, a bill to direct the 
Attorney General to review, revise, and develop law enforcement and 
justice protocols appropriate to address missing and murdered Indians, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1996

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1996, a bill to require 
Federal agencies to address environmental justice, to require 
consideration of cumulative impacts in certain permitting decisions, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2135

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins), the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin), the Senator from 
California (Ms. Harris), the Senator from Maine (Mr. King), the Senator 
from Kentucky (Mr. McConnell), the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Portman), the 
Senator from New York (Mr. Schumer) and the Senator from North Carolina 
(Mr. Tillis) were added as cosponsors of S. 2135, a bill to enforce 
current law regarding the National Instant Criminal Background Check 
System.


                                S. 2143

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the names of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto), the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow), the 
Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters) and the

[[Page S7362]]

Senator from Minnesota (Mr. Franken) were added as cosponsors of S. 
2143, a bill to amend the National Labor Relations Act to strengthen 
protections for employees wishing to advocate for improved wages, 
hours, or other terms or conditions of employment, to expand coverage 
under such Act, to provide a process for achieving initial collective 
bargaining agreements, and to provide for stronger remedies for 
interference with these rights, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2146

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2146, a bill to extend the 
full Federal medical assistance percentage to urban Indian 
organizations.


                              S. RES. 319

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 319, a resolution 
supporting the goals, activities, and ideals of Prematurity Awareness 
Month.

                          ____________________



