

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 159 (Wednesday, October 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 159 (Wednesday, October 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6320-S6321]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first

[[Page S6321]]

and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Rounds, 
             and Mr. Bennet):
       S. 1913. A bill to amend the Federal Crop Insurance Act and 
     the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 to 
     make the native sod provisions applicable to the United 
     States and to modify those provisions, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
     Forestry.
           By Mr. WARNER (for himself and Mr. Scott):
       S. 1914. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act in order to strengthen rules in case of competition for 
     diabetic testing strips, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Ms. Warren, and Mr. Van 
             Hollen):
       S. 1915. A bill to provide for the development and use of 
     technology for personalized handguns, to require that all 
     handguns manufactured or sold in, or imported into, the 
     United States incorporate such technology, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr. Van Hollen, Mrs. 
             Gillibrand, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Markey, Mr. Murphy, 
             Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Casey, Mr. Reed, Ms. 
             Hassan, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Carper, Mr. Cardin, Mr. 
             Coons, Mr. Franken, Mr. Booker, Ms. Harris, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Leahy, Ms. 
             Warren, Mr. Schumer, Ms. Cantwell, Mrs. McCaskill, 
             Mr. Nelson, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Udall, and Mr. Kaine):
       S. 1916. A bill to prohibit the possession or transfer of 
     certain firearm accessories, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Lee, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Mr. Graham, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Flake, Mr. 
             Booker, Mr. Scott, Mrs. Feinstein, and Mr. Blunt):
       S. 1917. A bill to reform sentencing laws and correctional 
     institutions, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. Paul, Mrs. Gillibrand, 
             and Mr. Merkley):
       S. 1918. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
     Streets Act of 1968 to authorize a grant program to assist 
     State and local law enforcement agencies in purchasing body-
     worn cameras and securely storing and maintaining recording 
     data for law enforcement officers; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Peters, 
             Mrs. Murray, and Mr. Casey):
       S. 1919. A bill to end the use of body-gripping traps in 
     the National Wildlife Refuge System; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. BOOKER:
       S. 1920. A bill to amend title 40, United States Code, to 
     direct the Administrator of General Services to incorporate 
     bird-safe building materials and design features into public 
     buildings, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.

                          ____________________



