

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7446-H7450]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1545
                 WOMEN, PEACE, AND SECURITY ACT OF 2017

  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and 
pass the bill (S. 1141) to ensure that the United States promotes the 
meaningful participation of women in mediation and negotiation 
processes seeking to prevent, mitigate, or resolve violent conflict.

[[Page H7447]]

  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                S. 1141

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Women, Peace, and Security 
     Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

       Congress makes the following findings:
       (1) Around the world, women remain under-represented in 
     conflict prevention, conflict resolution, and post-conflict 
     peace building efforts.
       (2) Women in conflict-affected regions have achieved 
     significant success in--
       (A) moderating violent extremism;
       (B) countering terrorism;
       (C) resolving disputes through nonviolent mediation and 
     negotiation; and
       (D) stabilizing societies by enhancing the effectiveness of 
     security services, peacekeeping efforts, institutions, and 
     decisionmaking processes.
       (3) Research suggests that peace negotiations are more 
     likely to succeed and to result in durable peace agreements 
     when women participate in the peace process.

     SEC. 3. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

       It is the sense of Congress that--
       (1) the meaningful participation of women in conflict 
     prevention and conflict resolution processes helps to promote 
     more inclusive and democratic societies and is critical to 
     the long-term stability of countries and regions;
       (2) the political participation, and leadership of women in 
     fragile environments, particularly during democratic 
     transitions, is critical to sustaining lasting democratic 
     institutions; and
       (3) the United States should be a global leader in 
     promoting the meaningful participation of women in conflict 
     prevention, management, and resolution, and post-conflict 
     relief and recovery efforts.

     SEC. 4. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

       It shall be the policy of the United States to promote the 
     meaningful participation of women in all aspects of overseas 
     conflict prevention, management, and resolution, and post-
     conflict relief and recovery efforts, reinforced through 
     diplomatic efforts and programs that--
       (1) integrate the perspectives and interests of affected 
     women into conflict-prevention activities and strategies;
       (2) encourage partner governments to adopt plans to improve 
     the meaningful participation of women in peace and security 
     processes and decision-making institutions;
       (3) promote the physical safety, economic security, and 
     dignity of women and girls;
       (4) support the equal access of women to aid distribution 
     mechanisms and services;
       (5) collect and analyze gender data for the purpose of 
     developing and enhancing early warning systems of conflict 
     and violence;
       (6) adjust policies and programs to improve outcomes in 
     gender equality and the empowerment of women; and
       (7) monitor, analyze, and evaluate the efforts related to 
     each strategy submitted under section 5 and the impact of 
     such efforts.

     SEC. 5. UNITED STATES STRATEGY TO PROMOTE THE PARTICIPATION 
                   OF WOMEN IN CONFLICT PREVENTION AND PEACE 
                   BUILDING.

       (a) Requirement.--Not later than one year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and again four years thereafter, 
     the President, in consultation with the heads of the relevant 
     Federal departments and agencies, shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees and make publicly 
     available a single government-wide strategy, to be known as 
     the Women, Peace, and Security Strategy, that provides a 
     detailed description of how the United States intends to 
     fulfill the policy objectives in section 4. The strategy 
     shall--
       (1) support and be aligned with plans developed by other 
     countries to improve the meaningful participation of women in 
     peace and security processes, conflict prevention, peace 
     building, transitional processes, and decisionmaking 
     institutions; and
       (2) include specific and measurable goals, benchmarks, 
     performance metrics, timetables, and monitoring and 
     evaluation plans to ensure the accountability and 
     effectiveness of all policies and initiatives carried out 
     under the strategy.
       (b) Specific Plans for Departments and Agencies.--Each 
     strategy under subsection (a) shall include a specific 
     implementation plan from each of the relevant Federal 
     departments and agencies that describes--
       (1) the anticipated contributions of the department or 
     agency, including technical, financial, and in-kind 
     contributions, to implement the strategy; and
       (2) the efforts of the department or agency to ensure that 
     the policies and initiatives carried out pursuant to the 
     strategy are designed to achieve maximum impact and long-term 
     sustainability.
       (c) Coordination.--The President should promote the 
     meaningful participation of women in conflict prevention, in 
     coordination and consultation with international partners, 
     including, as appropriate, multilateral organizations, 
     stakeholders, and other relevant international organizations, 
     particularly in situations in which the direct engagement of 
     the United States Government is not appropriate or advisable.
       (d) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     the President, in implementing each strategy submitted under 
     subsection (a), should--
       (1) provide technical assistance, training, and logistical 
     support to female negotiators, mediators, peace builders, and 
     stakeholders;
       (2) address security-related barriers to the meaningful 
     participation of women;
       (3) encourage increased participation of women in existing 
     programs funded by the United States Government that provide 
     training to foreign nationals regarding law enforcement, the 
     rule of law, or professional military education;
       (4) support appropriate local organizations, especially 
     women's peace building organizations;
       (5) support the training, education, and mobilization of 
     men and boys as partners in support of the meaningful 
     participation of women;
       (6) encourage the development of transitional justice and 
     accountability mechanisms that are inclusive of the 
     experiences and perspectives of women and girls;
       (7) expand and apply gender analysis, as appropriate, to 
     improve program design and targeting; and
       (8) conduct assessments that include the perspectives of 
     women regarding new initiatives in support of peace 
     negotiations, transitional justice and accountability, 
     efforts to counter violent extremism, or security sector 
     reform.

     SEC. 6. TRAINING REQUIREMENTS REGARDING THE PARTICIPATION OF 
                   WOMEN IN CONFLICT PREVENTION AND PEACE 
                   BUILDING.

       (a) Foreign Service.--The Secretary of State, in 
     conjunction with the Administrator of the United States 
     Agency for International Development, shall ensure that all 
     appropriate personnel (including special envoys, members of 
     mediation or negotiation teams, relevant members of the civil 
     service or Foreign Service, and contractors) responsible for 
     or deploying to countries or regions considered to be at risk 
     of, undergoing, or emerging from violent conflict obtain 
     training, as appropriate, in the following areas, each of 
     which shall include a focus on women and ensuring meaningful 
     participation by women:
       (1) Conflict prevention, mitigation, and resolution.
       (2) Protecting civilians from violence, exploitation, and 
     trafficking in persons.
       (3) International human rights law and international 
     humanitarian law.
       (b) Department of Defense.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
     ensure that relevant personnel receive training, as 
     appropriate, in the following areas:
       (1) Training in conflict prevention, peace processes, 
     mitigation, resolution, and security initiatives that 
     specifically addresses the importance of meaningful 
     participation by women.
       (2) Gender considerations and meaningful participation by 
     women, including training regarding--
       (A) international human rights law and international 
     humanitarian law, as relevant; and
       (B) protecting civilians from violence, exploitation, and 
     trafficking in persons.
       (3) Effective strategies and best practices for ensuring 
     meaningful participation by women.

     SEC. 7. CONSULTATION AND COLLABORATION.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary of State and the 
     Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
     Development may establish guidelines or take other steps to 
     ensure overseas United States personnel of the Department of 
     State or the United States Agency for International 
     Development, as the case may be, consult with appropriate 
     stakeholders, including local women, youth, ethnic, and 
     religious minorities, and other politically under-represented 
     or marginalized populations, regarding United States efforts 
     to--
       (1) prevent, mitigate, or resolve violent conflict; and
       (2) enhance the success of mediation and negotiation 
     processes by ensuring the meaningful participation of women.
       (b) Collaboration and Coordination.--The Secretary of State 
     should work with international, regional, national, and local 
     organizations to increase the meaningful participation of 
     women in international peacekeeping operations, and should 
     promote training that provides international peacekeeping 
     personnel with the substantive knowledge and skills needed to 
     ensure effective physical security and meaningful 
     participation of women in conflict prevention and peace 
     building.

     SEC. 8. REPORTS TO CONGRESS.

       (a) Briefing.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
     first submission of a strategy required under section 5, the 
     Secretary of State, in conjunction with the Administrator of 
     the United States Agency for International Development and 
     the Secretary of Defense, shall brief the appropriate 
     congressional committees on existing, enhanced, or newly 
     established training carried out pursuant to section 6.
       (b) Report on Women, Peace, and Security Strategy.--Not 
     later than 2 years after the date of the submission of each 
     strategy required under section 5, the President shall submit 
     to the appropriate congressional committees a report that--
       (1) summarizes and evaluates the implementation of such 
     strategy and the impact of United States diplomatic efforts 
     and foreign assistance programs, projects, and activities to 
     promote the meaningful participation of women;

[[Page H7448]]

       (2) describes the nature and extent of the coordination 
     among the relevant Federal departments and agencies on the 
     implementation of such strategy;
       (3) outlines the monitoring and evaluation tools, 
     mechanisms, and common indicators to assess progress made on 
     the policy objectives set forth in section 4; and
       (4) describes the existing, enhanced, or newly established 
     training carried out pursuant to section 6.

     SEC. 9. DEFINITIONS.

       In this Act:
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
     Armed Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
     Senate; and
       (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
     Armed Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the of 
     the House of Representatives.
       (2) Relevant federal departments and agencies.--The term 
     ``relevant Federal departments and agencies'' means--
       (A) the United States Agency for International Development;
       (B) the Department of State;
       (C) the Department of Defense;
       (D) the Department of Homeland Security; and
       (E) any other department or agency specified by the 
     President for purposes of this Act.
       (3) Stakeholders.--The term ``stakeholders'' means non-
     governmental and private sector entities engaged in or 
     affected by conflict prevention and stabilization, peace 
     building, protection, security, transition initiatives, 
     humanitarian response, or related efforts.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Royce) and the gentleman from New York (Mr. Engel) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.


                             General Leave

  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that 
all Members may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their 
remarks and to include any extraneous material in the Record.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from California?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of S. 1141. Now, this is the Women, 
Peace, and Security Act. This is the Senate companion to the bill H.R. 
2484 that the House passed earlier this session. That bill was authored 
by Representatives Kristi Noem and Jan Schakowsky, and I want to thank 
them; and I, of course, want to thank, also, Ranking Member Engel. I 
want to thank them collectively for their leadership on this important 
issue.
  I also want to thank Senators Corker, Cardin, Shaheen, and Capito for 
working so well with us in the Senate.
  I want to thank our assistant staff director, Jessica Kelch. I want 
to thank her for her essential work on this important legislation.
  I am happy to say that, with House passage today, this legislation 
will go to the President's desk.
  As I noted when this bill passed the House in June, this moment is 
really a culmination of years of bipartisan work by Members of 
Congress, including Jan Schakowsky and Kristi Noem. It is also the work 
of prior and current administration officials and the many advocates 
who want to see better, more sustainable solutions to ending wars, to 
combating terrorism, and to improving human rights around the world. 
What we are saying today is that women's participation is essential to 
confronting these fundamental challenges.
  Last Congress, the Foreign Affairs Committee held a hearing, part of 
its series of women in foreign affairs, where we heard powerful 
testimony about the importance of including women in the peace 
processes around the world.
  It is an obvious point that many are aware of that, without the 
participation of women, peace would not have come to Northern Ireland 
in those discussions nor would the peace have held.
  So now it may seem obvious that women should have an opportunity to 
represent their communities as a matter of right; they make up half the 
population. And what negotiation or agreement can claim to represent 
women if their very participation is barred?
  But our hearing also emphasized why women's participation in the 
peace processes is important if we care about the likelihood of the 
success of that process. Simply put, when women are at the negotiation 
table, peace is more likely.
  Compelling research shows that peace agreements are likely to be 
reached and are likely to last when women's groups are meaningfully 
involved. Women peacemakers often press warring parties to move beyond 
mere power-sharing agreements, which benefit only a small percentage of 
fighters, to more comprehensive and longer term accords, which benefit 
the civilian population as a whole, which benefits the next generation 
of that country.
  We have seen this play out. We saw it play out, as I said, in 
Northern Ireland. We saw it play out in Colombia; we saw it in Rwanda; 
we saw it in Sri Lanka, where women's groups have pushed for practical 
solutions to deescalate and resolve the conflict.
  In fact, later today, I will be speaking with Liberia's President, 
Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, whom I am proud to call a friend of many, many 
years. Of course, President Sirleaf and the women of Liberia represent 
what can be accomplished when women become involved in ending conflict.
  After many failed attempts by politicians, combatants, and the 
international community, it was the women of Liberia who forged an end 
to one of West Africa's longest running and most brutal conflicts. We 
must learn from history.
  Efforts to ``keep the peace'' through policing and peacekeeping 
missions also benefit from women's participation, which leads to better 
crime reporting and higher levels of trust within the communities they 
serve.
  And women are essential to confronting one of the greatest national 
security threats of our time: the spread of violent extremism around 
the world. When we look at who confronts jihadists and who teaches 
their children--if they have access to education, they can teach their 
children--women are truly on the front lines of this fight. They often 
possess unique insights into their families and communities and are 
capable of gathering information that men cannot, yet their input is 
frequently overlooked.
  We must acknowledge women as partners in this fight, and that is why 
the legislation before us today recognizes that it is in our national 
interest to promote women's participation in resolving violence and 
conflict.
  This concept has been building support for some time: the Bush 
administration pressed hard for women's participation in peace 
negotiations and the political process in Iraq, in Afghanistan, and 
elsewhere; the Obama administration expanded on these programs to 
require a governmentwide approach to women's inclusion in conflict 
resolution overseas; and the current administration has said that the 
State Department's Office of Global Women's Issues will continue to 
focus on these issues. I am eager to see an Ambassador nominated to 
lead that office.
  The bipartisan legislation before us today builds on these efforts. 
It will continue to require a governmentwide strategy to promote 
women's participation, along with specific goals and benchmarks and 
reporting to Congress in order to gauge progress. And it also requires 
that appropriate State, USAID, and Defense Department personnel receive 
training in how to facilitate women's participation in conflict 
resolution, security initiatives, and efforts to protect civilians from 
violence and from exploitation.

  I urge all Members to support passage today, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I rise in strong support of this measure, and I am glad we are taking 
up this bill from our colleagues in the other body, Senators Shaheen 
and Capito, and I want to thank our colleagues who have worked so hard 
on the House version of this bill, Representatives Jan Schakowsky and 
Representative Noem.
  Jan Schakowsky has brought forward a version of this bill for the 
last few Congresses. The House passed a version of this bill last year, 
and I am glad we are finally moving a version of it forward.

[[Page H7449]]

  One of the hallmarks of the Obama administration foreign policy was 
the National Action Plan on Women, Peace, and Security. It was based on 
a wealth of research that showed very clearly, as the chairman said, 
getting women involved in conflict prevention and resolution leads to 
more successful outcomes.
  Since the launch of this plan, the United States has promoted efforts 
to enhance the physical and economic security of women around the 
world. We have sought to break through the barriers that have stopped 
women from being full participants in peace processes.
  This bill would make these policies permanent. It would build on the 
Obama administration's achievements, making sure State Department, 
USAID, and Pentagon personnel fully understand just how important it is 
to get women involved in conflict prevention and resolution. It would 
also require annual reporting so Congress can stay apprised of these 
efforts.
  Now, we have been working a few years to get this legislation across 
the finish line, and, frankly, I don't think we can wait another 
moment. The administration's budget proposal would slash funding for 
diplomacy and development to dangerous levels, and a current redesign 
effort at the State Department might strip out initiatives like Women, 
Peace, and Security. I hope that won't happen. I got assurances today 
that that won't happen. I hope that is right, but we have to still 
fight for this.
  Congress has a role to play in foreign policy and, by passing this 
bill, it will be clear that we support efforts to expand opportunity 
and participation for women around the world.
  I am pleased to support this measure. As always, Chairman Royce has 
been a bulwark of helping to push this through. I thank the Members who 
have worked so hard on it.
  I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Illinois (Ms. Schakowsky), a leader on this legislation.
  Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Ranking Member Engel for 
yielding to me, and I rise in strong support of the Women, Peace, and 
Security Act.
  I first want to thank my Republican colead on this bill, Kristi Noem, 
for her hard work; and I want to express my gratitude to Chairman Royce 
and Ranking Member Engel for their robust support for this legislation.
  I want to thank Senator Shaheen and Senator Capito for their work in 
the Senate on this, as well as Senators Corker and Cardin.
  I want to thank the staff who has put in a lot of hours on this, last 
session and this session, including my staff, Cassandra Varanka.
  Around the world, women are disproportionately affected by conflict 
and violence. At the same time, women are acting as some of the most 
effective advocates for peace. Again and again, women have proven their 
ability to advance peacemaking efforts where others have failed.
  Look at Syria. In the town of Zabadani, women have been leading 
efforts to save their city from violence. Over 470 women signed a 
public petition, calling for a cease-fire. Their town had been under 
siege, experiencing daily shelling and barrel bombings. As the formal 
negotiations between the rebel-controlled local council and the Assad 
government constantly broke down, the war prevented the town from 
planting crops.
  A group of women peace activists came together to found a group 
called Damma, and they facilitated negotiations between the local 
council, the Free Syrian Army, and the Islamic brigades. Where the 
traditional actors had failed, these women moved through five rounds of 
negotiations, ultimately achieving a cease-fire. Now, the cease-fire 
only lasted 40 days, but those 40 days gave the town critical time to 
plant crops and address its food shortage.
  The power of women to advance peace and aid in postconflict 
reconciliation is not limited to Syria. Women in Liberia played a 
crucial role in bringing warring parties to the negotiating table, as 
the chairman said.
  When the Government of the Philippines and the Moro Islamic 
Liberation Front signed a major peace agreement in 2004, women made up 
50 percent of the government's negotiating team and 25 percent of the 
signatories.
  In Ireland, women helped ensure that the Good Friday Agreement 
included social issues, reconciliation measures, and compensation for 
victims of violence.
  Women around the world are actively working to advance peace talks 
and ensure successful transformation from conflict to peace. Passing 
the Women, Peace, and Security Act will ensure that the United States 
actively supports these incredible women as we work toward ending 
conflict around the world.
  When women are involved in the negotiations, peace is more likely to 
last. In fact, the International Peace Institute found that, with each 
5 percent increase in women's participation in the political process, a 
nation is five times less likely to use violence when faced with 
international crisis or conflict.
  Despite the strong evidence in favor of women's political 
participation, women remain underrepresented in conflict prevention, 
conflict resolution, and postconflict peace building efforts around the 
world. We need to change that.
  This legislation establishes women's participation as a critical 
element of U.S. foreign policy. It would encourage the United States to 
assist women mediators and negotiators by addressing barriers to their 
equal and secure participation in peace processes.

                              {time}  1600

  It would institute comprehensive training modules on the protection, 
rights, and specific needs of women in conflict, and require the 
administration to evaluate the impact of U.S. foreign assistance on 
women's meaningful participation.
  In addition, the Women, Peace, and Security Act would require the 
administration to report to Congress its strategy to promote women's 
participation in conflict prevention and resolution.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Collins of New York). The time of the 
gentlewoman has expired.
  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield an additional 1 minute to the 
gentlewoman from Illinois.
  Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. It would empower Congress to exercise oversight of 
that strategy's implementation.
  As countries around the world are struggling with conflict, the 
United States should be empowering anyone and everyone who can help 
achieve lasting peace.
  Mr. Speaker, I encourage all of my colleagues to support the Women, 
Peace, and Security Act.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume. I 
will close now since there are no further speakers on either side.
  I want to start again by thanking Chairman Ed Royce for all of his 
work and for all of his collaboration working together with us; as well 
as Representatives Schakowsky and Noem, who worked very closely 
together, for their really hard work and really good work.
  Mr. Speaker, one of the reasons I always support a strong investment 
in development and diplomacy is that we get such a good bang for our 
buck. Diplomacy and development efforts help to build stability. They 
defuse crises, they prevent conflicts, they help lay the groundwork for 
a more secure and more prosperous world.
  History and research have shown us that when women are involved in 
these processes, they work even better. So it is smart policy. It is 
not a matter of being condescending. It is a matter of smart policy.
  Think about the alternatives, about when we don't have diplomacy to 
help spread peace. Conflicts grow into wars--sometimes wars that 
American men and women will be required to fight. Populations are 
driven from their homes, triggering humanitarian crises. And the cost 
of dealing with these problems down the road is far higher than the 
cost of investing in diplomacy and development right now.
  So this legislation is a piece of that puzzle. It isn't the whole 
thing, but it is an important piece. It is an important part of making 
sure American diplomacy can succeed, and I am glad to support it.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``yes'' vote. I thank Chairman Royce for his 
hard

[[Page H7450]]

work, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, whether we are talking about Liberia, or Northern 
Ireland, or anywhere else where this world is in conflict, we have 
watched women play pivotal roles in advocating before governments, or 
before combatants, or in front of politicians, to bring an end to 
conflict.
  In recent years, we have seen armed conflicts flare around the world, 
producing the largest number of refugees that we have ever seen on 
record. Efforts to negotiate an end to these conflicts are more 
important than they have ever been. We know that when women are 
included in these discussions, we are more likely to see an enduring 
peace as a result.
  As a witness at our hearing on women's participation explained to us, 
including women is not only the right thing to do, it is the smart 
thing to do. The legislation before us today will strengthen U.S. 
efforts to promote the inclusion of women in peace negotiations in 
order to create more sustainable agreements and more stable partners 
for the United States and for our allies.
  Again, I want to thank Representatives Noem and Schakowsky and the 
bill's Senate sponsors for their bipartisan work on this measure; and, 
as always, Ranking Member Engel, for his leadership.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from California (Mr. Royce) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, S. 1141.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



