

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 155 (Wednesday, September 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 155 (Wednesday, September 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6186-S6187]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Wyden, 
             and Mrs. McCaskill):
       S. 1869. A bill to reauthorize and rename the position of 
     Whistleblower Ombudsman to be the Whistleblower Protection 
     Coordinator; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. HOEVEN (for himself, Mr. McCain, Ms. Heitkamp, 
             Ms. Cortez Masto, Mr. Franken, Mr. Daines, Mr. 
             Tester, and Mr. Barrasso):
       S. 1870. A bill to amend the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 
     to secure urgent resources vital to Indian victims of crime, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. CASSIDY:
       S. 1871. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     clarify the role of podiatrists in the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Blunt, and 
             Ms. Cantwell):
       S. 1872. A bill to authorize the programs of the 
     Transportation Security Administration relating to 
     transportation security, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and Mr. Blunt):
       S. 1873. A bill to require the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to carry out a program to establish peer specialists 
     in patient aligned care teams at medical centers of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.

[[Page S6187]]

  

           By Mr. WYDEN:
       S. 1874. A bill to direct the Secretary of Energy to 
     establish certain demonstration grant programs relating to 
     the demonstration of advanced distribution systems, smart 
     water heaters, vehicle-to-grid integration, and granular 
     retail electricity pricing, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. WYDEN:
       S. 1875. A bill to move the United States toward greater 
     energy independence and security, to increase the 
     flexibility, efficiency, and reliability of the electric 
     grid, to increase the competitiveness of the United States 
     economy, to protect consumers, and to improve the energy 
     performance of the Federal Government, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. Whitehouse, and Mr. 
             Reed):
       S. 1876. A bill to direct the Secretary of Energy to 
     establish a program to advance energy storage deployment by 
     reducing the cost of energy storage through research, 
     development, and demonstration, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. MORAN (for himself, Mr. Warner, Mr. Blunt, and 
             Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 1877. A bill to jump-start economic recovery through the 
     formation and growth of new businesses, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ENZI (for himself and Mr. Bennet):
       S. 1878. A bill to authorize the Department of Labor's 
     voluntary protection program; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself and Ms. Stabenow):
       S. 1879. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for the coverage of marriage and family 
     therapist services and mental health counselor services under 
     part B of the Medicare program, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Durbin, Mr. 
             Leahy, Ms. Baldwin, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Hirono, Mr. 
             King, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Markey, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. 
             Franken, Mr. Wyden, Ms. Warren, and Mr. Whitehouse):
       S. 1880. A bill to reform our government, reduce the grip 
     of special interest, and return our democracy to the American 
     people by increasing transparency and oversight of our 
     elections and government, reforming public financing for 
     Presidential and Congressional elections, and requiring 
     States to conduct Congressional redistricting through 
     independent commissions, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.

                          ____________________



