

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7930]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 298

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 298, a bill to 
require Senate candidates to file designations, statements, and reports 
in electronic form.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms. 
Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 540, a bill to limit the 
authority of States to tax certain income of employees for employment 
duties performed in other States.


                                S. 1172

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1172, a bill to 
impose sanctions with respect to foreign persons responsible for gross 
violations of internationally recognized human rights against lesbian, 
gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) individuals, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1353

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1353, a bill 
to require States to automatically register eligible voters to vote in 
elections for Federal offices, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1464

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
California (Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1464, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to expand the exclusion for 
energy conservation subsidies provided by public utilities to include 
subsidies provided by public utilities and State and local governments 
for water conservation and storm water management.


                                S. 1842

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1842, a bill to 
provide for wildfire suppression operations, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1913

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Heinrich) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1913, a bill to amend the 
Federal Crop Insurance Act and the Federal Agriculture Improvement and 
Reform Act of 1996 to make the native sod provisions applicable to the 
United States and to modify those provisions, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2030

  At the request of Mr. Tillis, the names of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) and the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Gardner) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2030, a bill to deem the compliance date for 
amended energy conservation standards for ceiling light kits to be 
January 21, 2020, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2032

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2032, a bill 
to make certain footwear eligible for duty-free treatment under the 
Generalized System of Preferences, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2055

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2055, a bill to amend 
the Public Health Service Act to better address substance use and 
substance use disorders among young people.


                                S. 2070

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2070, a bill to amend the 
Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, to reauthorize 
the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, and to promote 
initiatives that will reduce the risk of injury and death relating to 
the wandering characteristics of some children with autism.


                                S. 2143

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2143, a bill to amend 
the National Labor Relations Act to strengthen protections for 
employees wishing to advocate for improved wages, hours, or other terms 
or conditions of employment, to expand coverage under such Act, to 
provide a process for achieving initial collective bargaining 
agreements, and to provide for stronger remedies for interference with 
these rights, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2152

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton), the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse), the 
Senator from Arizona (Mr. McCain), the Senator from Alaska (Ms. 
Murkowski) and the Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. Capito) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 2152, a bill to amend title 18, United States Code, 
to provide for assistance for victims of child pornography, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2201

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2201, a bill to amend the 
Higher Education Act of 1965 to improve college access and college 
completion for all students.

                          ____________________



