

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6358-S6360]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. ROUNDS:
       S. 1921. A bill to amend the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
     Development Act to increase limitations and authorizations 
     for Farm Service Agency guaranteed loans, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
     Forestry.
           By Mr. GRAHAM (for himself, Mr. Lankford, Mr. Blunt, 
             Mr. Hatch, Mr. McCain, Mr. Daines, Mr. Scott, Mr. 
             Grassley, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Cruz, Mr. Lee, Mr. Portman, 
             Mr. Moran, Mr. Sasse, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Perdue, Mr. 
             Cassidy, Mr. Tillis, Mr. Cochran, Mrs. Ernst, Mr. 
             McConnell, Mr. Rounds, Mr. Roberts, Mr. Cotton, Mr. 
             Wicker, Mr. Risch, Mr. Paul, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Burr, 
             Mr. Strange, Mr. Barrasso, Mrs. Fischer, Mr. Isakson, 
             Mr. Thune, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Shelby, Mr. Flake, Mr. 
             Enzi, Mr. Young, Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Rubio, Mr. 
             Kennedy, Mr. Corker, Mr. Crapo, Mr. Hoeven, and Mr. 
             Toomey):
       S. 1922. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     protect pain-capable unborn children, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. 
             Murphy, Ms. Warren, Mr. Durbin, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. 
             Hirono, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Reed, Mr. 
             Kaine, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Booker, Mr. Markey, Mr. Coons, 
             Mr. Casey, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Wyden, 
             Ms. Harris, Mr. Sanders, Ms. Hassan, and Mrs. 
             Murray):
       S. 1923. A bill to prohibit firearms dealers from selling a 
     firearm prior to the completion of a background check; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BENNET (for himself and Mr. Gardner):
       S. 1924. A bill to authorize 2 additional district 
     judgeships for the district of Colorado; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself and Mr. Cardin):

[[Page S6359]]

  

       S. 1925. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to permanently modify the limitations on the deduction of 
     interest by financial institutions which hold tax-exempt 
     bonds, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. HARRIS (for herself and Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 1926. A bill to provide for the establishment of a 
     national memorial and national monument to commemorate those 
     killed by the collapse of the Saint Francis Dam on March 12, 
     1928, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Mr. Franken):
       S. 1927. A bill to amend section 455(m) of the Higher 
     Education Act of 1965 in order to allow adjunct faculty 
     members to qualify for public service loan forgiveness; to 
     the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. CORKER (for himself, Mr. Coons, Mr. Young, Mr. 
             Kaine, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Isakson, and Mr. 
             Casey):
       S. 1928. A bill to establish a review of United States 
     multilateral aid; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. UDALL:
       S. 1929. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to reform the system of public financing for Presidential 
     elections, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Rules 
     and Administration.
           By Mr. BENNET (for himself, Mrs. Feinstein, Ms. Harris, 
             Mr. Wyden, Mr. Whitehouse, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Cardin, 
             Mr. Merkley, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Warren, 
             Mr. Heinrich, Ms. Hirono, and Mr. Udall):
       S. 1930. A bill to establish a cost of greenhouse gases for 
     carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide to be used by 
     Federal agencies, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. UDALL:
       S. 1931. A bill to reform public financing for Presidential 
     elections and provide for public financing for Congressional 
     elections; to the Committee on Rules and Administration.
           By Mr. BENNET (for himself, Mr. Crapo, Mr. Tester, Mr. 
             Risch, and Mr. Wyden):
       S. 1932. A bill to amend the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
     Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to provide for certain 
     wildfire mitigation assistance; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Flake, Mr. 
             Leahy, Mr. Booker, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Franken, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Udall, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Schatz, Mr. 
             King, Mr. Peters, Mr. Markey, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. 
             Sanders, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Coons, Mr. Merkley, Mr. 
             Kaine, and Ms. Baldwin):
       S. 1933. A bill to focus limited Federal resources on the 
     most serious offenders; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself and Ms. Murkowski):
       S. 1934. A bill to prevent catastrophic failure or shutdown 
     of remote diesel power engines due to emission control 
     devices, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. MORAN:
       S. 1935. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to treat Indian tribal governments in the same manner as 
     State governments for certain Federal tax purposes, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. COTTON (for himself and Mr. Tillis):
       S. 1936. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for the designation of State approving agencies for 
     multi-State apprenticeship programs for purposes of the 
     educational assistance programs of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. FLAKE:
       S. 1937. A bill to authorize appropriations for border 
     infrastructure construction, to provide conditional resident 
     status to certain aliens, and to amend the Immigration and 
     Nationality Act to include grounds of inadmissibility and 
     deportability for alien members of criminal gangs and 
     cartels, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself and Mr. Booker):
       S. 1938. A bill to establish a policy framework that offers 
     and rewards work, strengthens the incentive to work, greatly 
     reduces poverty, and creates new jobs in the United States, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Markey, 
             Mr. Menendez, Mr. Sanders, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Reed, 
             Mrs. Murray, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Carper, Mr. Durbin, 
             Mr. Wyden, Ms. Duckworth, Ms. Warren, Mr. Kaine, Ms. 
             Harris, Mr. Cardin, and Mr. Booker):
       S. 1939. A bill to repeal the Protection of Lawful Commerce 
     in Arms Act; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CARPER (for himself and Mr. Barrasso):
       S. 1940. A bill to amend the Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956 
     to reauthorize the volunteer services, community partnership, 
     and refuge education programs of the National Wildlife Refuge 
     System, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself and Ms. Murkowski):
       S. 1941. A bill to amend the Migratory Bird Treaty Act to 
     clarify the treatment of authentic Alaska Native articles of 
     handicraft containing nonedible migratory bird parts, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Environment and Public 
     Works.
           By Ms. HEITKAMP (for herself, Mr. Tester, Mr. Franken, 
             Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Merkley, and Ms. Warren):
       S. 1942. A bill to direct the Attorney General to review, 
     revise, and develop law enforcement and justice protocols 
     appropriate to address missing and murdered Indians, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. NELSON (for himself and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 1943. A bill to amend the Caribbean Basin Economic 
     Recovery Act to extend the transition period for preferential 
     treatment of certain textile and apparel articles; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. NELSON:
       S. 1944. A bill to amend title XVI of the Social Security 
     Act to allow the Commissioner of Social Security to waive the 
     30-day residency requirement for receipt of supplemental 
     security income benefits for individuals who evacuate from 
     certain territories of the United States as a result of an 
     emergency or natural disaster; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Reed, 
             Mr. Kaine, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Franken, Mrs. Gillibrand, 
             Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Markey, Mr. Carper, Ms. Warren, 
             Ms. Hirono, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Booker, Ms. Hassan, Mr. 
             Sanders, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Blumenthal, and Ms. 
             Harris):
       S. 1945. A bill to regulate large capacity ammunition 
     feeding devices; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MENENDEZ:
       S. 1946. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow unpopulated census tracts that are contiguous to 
     low-income communities to be treated as low-income 
     communities under the new markets tax credit; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BROWN:
       S. 1947. A bill to improve food safety, to encourage 
     greater production of agricultural commodities for use in the 
     locality of production, to reauthorize and expand Department 
     of Agriculture support of those efforts, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
     Forestry.
           By Mrs. McCASKILL:
       S. 1948. A bill to abrogate the sovereign immunity of 
     Indian tribes as a defense in inter partes review of patents; 
     to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mrs. MURRAY:
       S. 1949. A bill to authorize demonstration projects to 
     improve educational and housing outcomes for children; to the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and Mr. Booker):
       S. 1950. A bill to require the Federal Communications 
     Commission to submit to Congress a report on promoting 
     broadband Internet access service for veterans; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. COONS:
       S. 1951. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     to establish a pilot program to award grants to nonprofit 
     veterans service organizations to upgrade the community 
     facilities of such organizations; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr. McCain, Mr. Manchin, 
             and Mr. Kaine):
       S. 1952. A bill to improve oversight and accountability of 
     the financial processes of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. HOEVEN (for himself, Mr. McCain, and Mr. 
             Barrasso):
       S. 1953. A bill to amend the Tribal Law and Order Act of 
     2010 and the Indian Law Enforcement Reform Act to provide for 
     advancements in public safety services to Indian communities, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. PERDUE (for himself, Mr. Boozman, and Mr. 
             Leahy):
       S. 1954. A bill to authorize the Board of Regents of the 
     Smithsonian Institution to plan, design, and construct a 
     central parking facility on National Zoological Park property 
     in Washington, D.C.; to the Committee on Rules and 
     Administration.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr. Peters):
       S. 1955. A bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal to Liu 
     Xiaobo, and collectively to all advocates of democracy and 
     human rights in China, in recognition of their extraordinary 
     advocacy for liberty and human rights despite repression and 
     their impact on world peace and global understanding of 
     China, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, 
     Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI:
       S. 1956. A bill to authorize the Mayor of the District of 
     Columbia and the Director of the National Park Service to 
     enter into cooperative management agreements for the 
     operation, maintenance, and management of

[[Page S6360]]

     units of the National Park System in the District of 
     Columbia, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. NELSON:
       S. 1957. A bill to amend the Energy Policy and Conservation 
     Act to require the Secretary of Energy to establish a 
     gasoline supply reserve in the State of Florida, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.

                          ____________________



