

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 199 (Wednesday, December 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 199 (Wednesday, December 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7891-S7892]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 611

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from Utah 
(Mr. Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 611, a bill to amend the 
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act to meet the needs of homeless 
children, youth, and families, and honor the assessments and priorities 
of local communities.


                                 S. 949

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 949, a bill to require the 
Director of the Office of Personnel Management to create a 
classification that more accurately reflects the vital role of wildland 
firefighters.


                                 S. 950

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 950, a bill to correct 
problems pertaining to human resources for career and volunteer 
personnel engaged in wildland fire and structure fire.


                                S. 1203

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of

[[Page S7892]]

S. 1203, a bill to require the Administrator of the Environmental 
Protection Agency to establish a program under which the Administrator 
shall defer the designation of an area as a nonattainment area for 
purposes of the 8-hour ozone national ambient air quality standard if 
the area achieves and maintains certain standards under a voluntary 
early action compact plan.


                                S. 1514

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1514, a bill to amend 
certain Acts to reauthorize those Acts and to increase protections for 
wildlife, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1718

  At the request of Mr. Kennedy, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1718, a bill to 
authorize the minting of a coin in honor of the 75th anniversary of the 
end of World War II, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1746

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr. 
Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1746, a bill to require the 
Congressional Budget Office to make publicly available the fiscal and 
mathematical models, data, and other details of computations used in 
cost analysis and scoring.


                                S. 1870

  At the request of Mr. Hoeven, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1870, a bill to amend the 
Victims of Crime Act of 1984 to secure urgent resources vital to Indian 
victims of crime, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1879

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. 
Blumenthal) were added as cosponsors of S. 1879, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for the coverage of 
marriage and family therapist services and mental health counselor 
services under part B of the Medicare program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1919

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1919, a bill 
to end the use of body-gripping traps in the National Wildlife Refuge 
System.


                                S. 1945

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1945, a bill to regulate 
large capacity ammunition feeding devices.


                                S. 1990

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1990, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to increase the amounts payable by the 
Department of Veterans Affairs for dependency and indemnity 
compensation, to modify the requirements for dependency and indemnity 
compensation for survivors of certain veterans rated totally disabled 
at the time of death, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2109

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2109, a bill to count 
revenues from military and veteran education programs toward the limit 
on Federal revenues that certain proprietary institutions of higher 
education are allowed to receive for purposes of section 487 of the 
Higher Education Act of 1965, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2155

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the names of the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. Heller), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons), the Senator from 
Missouri (Mr. Blunt) and the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Carper) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2155, a bill to promote economic growth, 
provide tailored regulatory relief, and enhance consumer protections, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2159

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. 
Hassan) were added as cosponsors of S. 2159, a bill to require covered 
harassment and covered discrimination awareness and prevention training 
for Members, officers, employees, interns, fellows, and detailees of 
Congress within 30 days of employment and annually thereafter, to 
require a biennial climate survey of Congress, to amend the enforcement 
process under the Office of Congressional Workplace Rights for covered 
harassment and covered discrimination complaints, and for other 
purposes.

                          ____________________



