

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 146 (Monday, September 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 146 (Monday, September 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S5170-S5179]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 ABOLISH HUMAN TRAFFICKING ACT OF 2017

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the immediate consideration of Calendar No. 188, S. 1311.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report the bill by title.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

       A bill (S. 1311) to provide assistance in abolishing human 
     trafficking in the United States.

  There being no objection, the Senate proceeded to consider the bill, 
which had been reported from the Committee on the Judiciary, with an 
amendment to strike all after the enacting clause and insert in lieu 
thereof the following:

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

       (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Abolish 
     Human Trafficking Act of 2017''.
       (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act 
     is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Preserving Domestic Trafficking Victims' Fund.
Sec. 3. Mandatory restitution for victims of commercial sexual 
              exploitation.
Sec. 4. Victim-witness assistance in sexual exploitation cases.
Sec. 5. Victim protection training for the Department of Homeland 
              Security.
Sec. 6. Implementing a victim-centered approach to human trafficking.
Sec. 7. Direct services for child victims of human trafficking.
Sec. 8. Holistic training for Federal law enforcement officers and 
              prosecutors.
Sec. 9. Best practices in delivering justice for victims of 
              trafficking.
Sec. 10. Improving the national strategy to combat human trafficking.
Sec. 11. Specialized human trafficking training and technical 
              assistance for service providers.
Sec. 12. Enhanced penalties for human trafficking, child exploitation, 
              and repeat offenders.
Sec. 13. Targeting organized human trafficking perpetrators.
Sec. 14. Investigating complex human trafficking networks.
Sec. 15. Combating sex tourism.
Sec. 16. Human Trafficking Justice Coordinators.
Sec. 17. Interagency Task Force to Monitor and Combat Human 
              Trafficking.
Sec. 18. Additional reporting on crime.
Sec. 19. Making the Presidential Survivor Council permanent.
Sec. 20. Strengthening the national human trafficking hotline.
Sec. 21. Ending Government partnerships with the commercial sex 
              industry.
Sec. 22. Study of human trafficking victim privilege.
Sec. 23. Understanding the effects of severe forms of trafficking in 
              persons.
Sec. 24. Combating trafficking in persons.
Sec. 25. Grant accountability.
Sec. 26. HERO Act improvements.

     SEC. 2. PRESERVING DOMESTIC TRAFFICKING VICTIMS' FUND.

       (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     the Domestic Trafficking Victims' Fund established under 
     section 3014 of title 18, United States Code--
       (1) is intended to supplement, and not supplant, any other 
     funding for domestic trafficking victims; and
       (2) has achieved the objective described in paragraph (1) 
     since the establishment of the Fund.
       (b) Ensuring Full Funding.--Section 3014 of title 18, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding paragraph 
     (1), by striking ``September 30, 2019'' and inserting 
     ``September 30, 2023'';
       (2) in subsection (f), by inserting ``, including the 
     mandatory imposition of civil remedies for satisfaction of an 
     unpaid fine as authorized under section 3613, where 
     appropriate'' after ``criminal cases''; and
       (3) in subsection (h)(3), by inserting ``and child victims 
     of a severe form of trafficking (as defined in section 103 of 
     the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 
     2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102))'' after ``child pornography victims''.

     SEC. 3. MANDATORY RESTITUTION FOR VICTIMS OF COMMERCIAL 
                   SEXUAL EXPLOITATION.

       (a) Amendment.--Chapter 117 of title 18, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

     ``Sec. 2429. Mandatory restitution

       ``(a) Notwithstanding section 3663 or 3663A, and in 
     addition to any other civil or criminal penalty authorized by 
     law, the court shall order restitution for any offense under 
     this chapter.

[[Page S5171]]

       ``(b)(1) The order of restitution under this section shall 
     direct the defendant to pay the victim (through the 
     appropriate court mechanism) the full amount of the victim's 
     losses, as determined by the court under paragraph (3), and 
     shall additionally require the defendant to pay the greater 
     of the gross income or value to the defendant of the victim's 
     services, if the services constitute commercial sex acts as 
     defined under section 1591.
       ``(2) An order of restitution under this section shall be 
     issued and enforced in accordance with section 3664 in the 
     same manner as an order under section 3663A.
       ``(3) As used in this subsection, the term `full amount of 
     the victim's losses' has the same meaning as provided in 
     section 2259(b)(3).
       ``(c) The forfeiture of property under this section shall 
     be governed by the provisions of section 413 (other than 
     subsection (d) of such section) of the Controlled Substances 
     Act (21 U.S.C. 853).
       ``(d) As used in this section, the term `victim' means the 
     individual harmed as a result of a crime under this chapter, 
     including, in the case of a victim who is under 18 years of 
     age, incompetent, incapacitated, or deceased, the legal 
     guardian of the victim or a representative of the victim's 
     estate, or another family member, or any other person 
     appointed as suitable by the court, but in no event shall the 
     defendant be named such representative or guardian.''.
       (b) Table of Sections.--The table of sections for chapter 
     117 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
     after the item relating to section 2428 the following:

``2429. Mandatory restitution.''.

     SEC. 4. VICTIM-WITNESS ASSISTANCE IN SEXUAL EXPLOITATION 
                   CASES.

       (a) Availability of DOJ Appropriations.--Section 
     524(c)(1)(B) of title 28, United States Code, is amended by 
     inserting ``, chapter 110 of title 18'' after ``chapter 77 of 
     title 18''.
       (b) Amendment to Title 31.--Section 9705(a)(2)(B)(v) of 
     title 31, United States Code, is amended by inserting ``, 
     chapter 109A of title 18 (relating to sexual abuse), chapter 
     110 of title 18 (relating to child sexual exploitation), or 
     chapter 117 of title 18 (relating to transportation for 
     illegal sexual activity and related crimes)'' after 
     ``(relating to human trafficking)''.

     SEC. 5. VICTIM PROTECTION TRAINING FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF 
                   HOMELAND SECURITY.

       (a) In General.--Title IX of the Justice for Victims of 
     Trafficking Act of 2015 (6 U.S.C. 641 et seq.) is amended by 
     adding at the end the following:

     ``SEC. 906. VICTIM PROTECTION TRAINING FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF 
                   HOMELAND SECURITY.

       ``(a) Directive to DHS Law Enforcement Officials and Task 
     Forces.--
       ``(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
     of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall issue a 
     directive to--
       ``(A) all Federal law enforcement officers and relevant 
     personnel employed by the Department who may be involved in 
     the investigation of human trafficking offenses; and
       ``(B) members of all task forces led by the Department that 
     participate in the investigation of human trafficking 
     offenses.
       ``(2) Required instructions.--The directive required to be 
     issued under paragraph (1) shall include instructions on--
       ``(A) the investigation of individuals who patronize or 
     solicit human trafficking victims as being engaged in severe 
     trafficking in persons and how such individuals should be 
     investigated for their roles in severe trafficking in 
     persons; and
       ``(B) how victims of sex or labor trafficking often engage 
     in criminal acts as a direct result of severe trafficking in 
     persons and such individuals are victims of a crime and 
     affirmative measures should be taken to avoid arresting, 
     charging, or prosecuting such individuals for any offense 
     that is the direct result of their victimization.
       ``(b) Victim Screening Protocol.--
       ``(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
     of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall issue a 
     screening protocol for use during all anti-trafficking law 
     enforcement operations in which the Department is involved.
       ``(2) Requirements.--The protocol required to be issued 
     under paragraph (1) shall--
       ``(A) require the individual screening of all adults and 
     children who are suspected of engaging in commercial sex 
     acts, child labor that is a violation of law, or work in 
     violation of labor standards to determine whether each 
     individual screened is a victim of human trafficking;
       ``(B) require affirmative measures to avoid arresting, 
     charging, or prosecuting human trafficking victims for any 
     offense that is the direct result of their victimization;
       ``(C) be developed in consultation with relevant 
     interagency partners and nongovernmental organizations that 
     specialize in the prevention of human trafficking or in the 
     identification and support of victims of human trafficking 
     and survivors of human trafficking; and
       ``(D) include--
       ``(i) procedures and practices to ensure that the screening 
     process minimizes trauma or revictimization of the person 
     being screened; and
       ``(ii) guidelines on assisting victims of human trafficking 
     in identifying and receiving restorative services.
       ``(c) Mandatory Training.--The training described in 
     sections 902 and 904 shall include training necessary to 
     implement--
       ``(1) the directive required under subsection (a); and
       ``(2) the protocol required under subsection (b).''.
       (b) Table of Contents Amendment.--The table of contents in 
     section 1(b) of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 
     2015 (Public Law 114-22; 129 Stat. 227) is amended by 
     inserting after the item relating to section 905 the 
     following:

``Sec. 906. Victim protection training for the Department of Homeland 
              Security.''.

     SEC. 6. IMPLEMENTING A VICTIM-CENTERED APPROACH TO HUMAN 
                   TRAFFICKING.

       Section 107(b)(2) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act 
     of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7105(b)(2)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (B)(ii); by striking the period at the 
     end and inserting ``; and''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(D) Priority.--In selecting recipients of grants under 
     this paragraph that are only available for law enforcement 
     operations or task forces, the Attorney General may give 
     priority to any applicant that files an attestation with the 
     Attorney General stating that--
       ``(i) the grant funds--

       ``(I) will be used to assist in the prevention of severe 
     forms of trafficking in persons in accordance with Federal 
     law;
       ``(II) will be used to strengthen efforts to investigate 
     and prosecute those who knowingly benefit financially from 
     participation in a venture that has engaged in any act of 
     human trafficking;
       ``(III) will be used to take affirmative measures to avoid 
     arresting, charging, or prosecuting victims of human 
     trafficking for any offense that is the direct result of 
     their victimization; and
       ``(IV) will not be used to require a victim of human 
     trafficking to collaborate with law enforcement officers as a 
     condition of access to any shelter or restorative services; 
     and

       ``(ii) the applicant will provide dedicated resources for 
     anti-human trafficking law enforcement for a period that is 
     longer than the duration of the grant received under this 
     paragraph.''.

     SEC. 7. DIRECT SERVICES FOR CHILD VICTIMS OF HUMAN 
                   TRAFFICKING.

       Section 214(b) of the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 
     (42 U.S.C. 13002(b)) is amended--
       (1) in the heading by inserting ``Child Victims of a Severe 
     Form of Trafficking in Persons and'' before ``Victims of 
     Child Pornography''; and
       (2) by inserting ``victims of a severe form of trafficking 
     (as defined in section 103 of the Trafficking Victims 
     Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102(9)(A))) who were under 
     the age of 18 at the time of the offense and'' before 
     ``victims of child pornography''.

     SEC. 8. HOLISTIC TRAINING FOR FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT 
                   OFFICERS AND PROSECUTORS.

       All training required under the Combat Human Trafficking 
     Act of 2015 (42 U.S.C. 14044g) and section 105(c)(4) of the 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
     7105(c)(4)) shall--
       (1) emphasize that an individual who knowingly solicits or 
     patronizes a commercial sex act from a person who was a minor 
     (consistent with section 1591(c) of title 18, United States 
     Code) or was subject to force, fraud, or coercion is guilty 
     of an offense under chapter 77 of title 18, United States 
     Code, and is a party to a human trafficking offense;
       (2) develop specific curriculum for--
       (A) under appropriate circumstances, arresting and 
     prosecuting buyers of commercial sex, child labor that is a 
     violation of law, or forced labor as a form of primary 
     prevention; and
       (B) investigating and prosecuting individuals who knowingly 
     benefit financially from participation in a venture that has 
     engaged in any act of human trafficking; and
       (3) specify that any comprehensive approach to eliminating 
     human trafficking shall include a demand reduction component.

     SEC. 9. BEST PRACTICES IN DELIVERING JUSTICE FOR VICTIMS OF 
                   TRAFFICKING.

       Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this 
     Act, the Attorney General shall issue guidance to all offices 
     and components of the Department of Justice--
       (1) emphasizing that an individual who knowingly solicits 
     or patronizes a commercial sex act from a person who was a 
     minor (consistent with section 1591(c) of title 18, United 
     States Code) or was subject to force, fraud, or coercion is 
     guilty of an offense under chapter 77 of title 18, United 
     States Code, and is a party to a severe form of trafficking 
     in persons, as that term is defined in section 103(9) of the 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
     7102(9));
       (2) recommending and implementing best practices for the 
     collection of special assessments under section 3014 of title 
     18, United States Code, as added by section 101 of the 
     Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015 (Public Law 
     114-22; 129 Stat. 228), including a directive that civil 
     liens are an authorized collection method and remedy under 
     section 3613 of title 18, United States Code; and
       (3) clarifying that commercial sexual exploitation is a 
     form of gender-based violence.

     SEC. 10. IMPROVING THE NATIONAL STRATEGY TO COMBAT HUMAN 
                   TRAFFICKING.

       Section 606(b) of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking 
     Act of 2015 (42 U.S.C. 14044h(b)) is amended by adding at the 
     end the following:
       ``(6) A national strategy to prevent human trafficking and 
     reduce demand for human trafficking victims.''.

     SEC. 11. SPECIALIZED HUMAN TRAFFICKING TRAINING AND TECHNICAL 
                   ASSISTANCE FOR SERVICE PROVIDERS.

       (a) In General.--Section 111 of the Violence Against Women 
     and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 
     U.S.C. 14044f) is amended--
       (1) in the heading, by striking ``law enforcement training 
     programs'' and inserting ``specialized human trafficking 
     training and technical assistance for service providers'';
       (2) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ``means a State or a 
     local government.'' and inserting the following: ``means--

[[Page S5172]]

       ``(A) a State or unit of local government;
       ``(B) a federally recognized Indian tribal government, as 
     determined by the Secretary of the Interior;
       ``(C) a victim service provider;
       ``(D) a nonprofit or for-profit organization (including a 
     tribal nonprofit or for-profit organization);
       ``(E) a national organization; or
       ``(F) an institution of higher education (including tribal 
     institutions of higher education).'';
       (3) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
       ``(b) Grants Authorized.--The Attorney General may award 
     grants to eligible entities to--
       ``(1) provide training to identify and protect victims of 
     trafficking;
       ``(2) improve the quality and quantity of services offered 
     to trafficking survivors; and
       ``(3) improve victim service providers' partnerships with 
     Federal, State, tribal, and local law enforcement agencies 
     and other relevant entities.''; and
       (4) in subsection (c)--
       (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``or'' at the end;
       (B) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and 
     inserting a semicolon; and
       (C) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
       ``(4) provide technical assistance on the range of services 
     available to victim service providers who serve trafficking 
     victims;
       ``(5) develop and distribute materials, including materials 
     identifying best practices in accordance with Federal law and 
     policies, to support victim service providers working with 
     human trafficking victims;
       ``(6) identify and disseminate other publicly available 
     materials in accordance with Federal law to help build 
     capacity of service providers;
       ``(7) provide training at relevant conferences, through 
     webinars, or through other mechanisms in accordance with 
     Federal law; or
       ``(8) assist service providers in developing additional 
     resources such as partnerships with Federal, State, tribal, 
     and local law enforcement agencies and other relevant 
     entities in order to access a range of available services in 
     accordance with Federal law.''.
       (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of 
     contents in section 2 of the Violence Against Women and 
     Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 
     109-162; 119 Stat. 2960) is amended by striking the item 
     relating to section 111 and inserting the following:

``Sec. 111. Grants for specialized human trafficking training and 
              technical assistance for service providers.''.

     SEC. 12. ENHANCED PENALTIES FOR HUMAN TRAFFICKING, CHILD 
                   EXPLOITATION, AND REPEAT OFFENDERS.

       Part I of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in chapter 77--
       (A) in section 1583(a), in the flush text following 
     paragraph (3), by striking ``not more than 20 years'' and 
     inserting ``not more than 30 years'';
       (B) in section 1587, by striking ``four years'' and 
     inserting ``10 years''; and
       (C) in section 1591(d), by striking ``20 years'' and 
     inserting ``25 years''; and
       (2) in section 2426--
       (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``twice'' and inserting 
     ``3 times''; and
       (B) in subsection (b)(1)(B) by striking ``paragraph (1)'' 
     and inserting ``subparagraph (A)''.

     SEC. 13. TARGETING ORGANIZED HUMAN TRAFFICKING PERPETRATORS.

       Section 521(c) of title 18, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (2) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4);
       (3) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
       ``(3) a Federal offense involving human trafficking, sexual 
     abuse, sexual exploitation, or transportation for 
     prostitution or any illegal sexual activity; and''; and
       (4) in paragraph (4), as so redesignated, by striking ``(1) 
     or (2)'' and inserting ``(1), (2), or (3)''.

     SEC. 14. INVESTIGATING COMPLEX HUMAN TRAFFICKING NETWORKS.

       Section 2516 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (1)(c)--
       (A) by inserting ``section 1582 (vessels for slave trade), 
     section 1583 (enticement into slavery),'' after ``section 
     1581 (peonage),''; and
       (B) by inserting ``section 1585 (seizure, detention, 
     transportation or sale of slaves), section 1586 (service on 
     vessels in slave trade), section 1587 (possession of slaves 
     aboard vessel), section 1588 (transportation of slaves from 
     United States),'' after ``section 1584 (involuntary 
     servitude),''; and
       (2) in subsection (2)--
       (A) by striking ``kidnapping human'' and inserting 
     ``kidnapping, human''; and
       (B) by striking ``production, ,'' and inserting 
     ``production, prostitution,''.

     SEC. 15. COMBATING SEX TOURISM.

       Section 2423 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``for the purpose'' and 
     inserting ``with a motivating purpose''; and
       (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``for the purpose of 
     engaging'' and inserting ``with a motivating purpose of 
     engaging''.

     SEC. 16. HUMAN TRAFFICKING JUSTICE COORDINATORS.

       Section 606 of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act 
     of 2015 (42 U.S.C. 14044h) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (b)(1)--
       (A) by striking subparagraph (B); and
       (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (C) and (D) as 
     subparagraphs (B) and (C), respectively; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(c) Human Trafficking Justice Coordinators.--The Attorney 
     General shall designate in each Federal judicial district not 
     less than 1 assistant United States attorney to serve as the 
     Human Trafficking Coordinator for the district who, in 
     addition to any other responsibilities, works with a human 
     trafficking victim-witness specialist and shall be 
     responsible for--
       ``(1) implementing the National Strategy with respect to 
     all forms of human trafficking, including labor trafficking 
     and sex trafficking;
       ``(2) prosecuting, or assisting in the prosecution of, 
     human trafficking cases;
       ``(3) conducting public outreach and awareness activities 
     relating to human trafficking;
       ``(4) ensuring the collection of data required to be 
     collected under clause (viii) of section 105(d)(7)(Q) of the 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
     7103(d)(7)(Q)), as added by section 17 of the Abolish Human 
     Trafficking Act of 2017, is sought;
       ``(5) coordinating with other Federal agencies, State, 
     tribal, and local law enforcement agencies, victim service 
     providers, and other relevant non-governmental organizations 
     to build partnerships on activities relating to human 
     trafficking; and
       ``(6) ensuring the collection of restitution for victims is 
     sought as required to be ordered under section 1593 of title 
     18, United States Code, and section 2429 of such title, as 
     added by section 3 of the Abolish Human Trafficking Act of 
     2017.
       ``(d) Department of Justice Coordinator.--Not later than 60 
     days after the date of enactment of the Abolish Human 
     Trafficking Act of 2017, the Attorney General shall designate 
     an official who shall coordinate human trafficking efforts 
     within the Department of Justice who, in addition to any 
     other responsibilities, shall be responsible for--
       ``(1) coordinating, promoting, and supporting the work of 
     the Department of Justice relating to human trafficking, 
     including investigation, prosecution, training, outreach, 
     victim support, grant-making, and policy activities;
       ``(2) in consultation with survivors of human trafficking, 
     or anti-human trafficking organizations, producing and 
     disseminating, including making publicly available when 
     appropriate, replication guides and training materials for 
     law enforcement officers, prosecutors, judges, emergency 
     responders, individuals working in victim services, adult and 
     child protective services, social services, and public 
     safety, medical personnel, mental health personnel, financial 
     services personnel, and any other individuals whose work may 
     bring them in contact with human trafficking regarding how 
     to--
       ``(A) identify signs of human trafficking;
       ``(B) conduct investigations in human trafficking cases;
       ``(C) address evidentiary issues and other legal issues; 
     and
       ``(D) appropriately assess, respond to, and interact with 
     victims and witnesses in human trafficking cases, including 
     in administrative, civil, and criminal judicial proceedings; 
     and
       ``(3) carrying out such other duties as the Attorney 
     General determines necessary in connection with enhancing the 
     understanding, prevention, and detection of, and response to, 
     human trafficking.''.

     SEC. 17. INTERAGENCY TASK FORCE TO MONITOR AND COMBAT HUMAN 
                   TRAFFICKING.

       Section 105(d)(7)(Q) of the Trafficking Victims Protection 
     Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7103(d)(7)(Q)) is amended--
       (1) in clause (vi), by striking ``and'' at the end; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(viii) the number of convictions obtained under chapter 
     77 of title 18, United States Code, aggregated separately by 
     the form of offense committed with respect to the victim, 
     including recruiting, enticing, harboring, transporting, 
     providing, obtaining, advertising, maintaining, patronizing, 
     or soliciting a human trafficking victim; and''.

     SEC. 18. ADDITIONAL REPORTING ON CRIME.

       Section 237(b) of the William Wilberforce Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 (28 U.S.C. 534 
     note) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and 
     inserting a semicolon; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(4) incidents of assisting or promoting prostitution, 
     child labor that is a violation of law, or forced labor of an 
     individual under the age of 18 as described in paragraph (1); 
     and
       ``(5) incidents of purchasing or soliciting commercial sex 
     acts, child labor that is a violation of law, or forced labor 
     with an individual under the age of 18 as described in 
     paragraph (2).''.

     SEC. 19. MAKING THE PRESIDENTIAL SURVIVOR COUNCIL PERMANENT.

       Section 115 of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act 
     of 2015 (Public Law 114-22; 129 Stat. 243) is amended by 
     striking subsection (h).

     SEC. 20. STRENGTHENING THE NATIONAL HUMAN TRAFFICKING 
                   HOTLINE.

       (a) Reporting Requirement.--Section 105(d)(3) of the 
     Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 
     (22 U.S.C. 7103(d)(3)) is amended--
       (1) by inserting ``and providing an annual report on the 
     case referrals received from the national human trafficking 
     hotline by Federal departments and agencies'' after 
     ``international trafficking''; and
       (2) by inserting ``and reporting requirements'' after ``Any 
     data collection procedures''.

[[Page S5173]]

       (b) Hotline Information.--Section 107(b)(1)(B)(ii) of such 
     Act (22 U.S.C. 7105(b)(1)(B)(ii)) is amended by adding at the 
     end the following: ``The number of the national human 
     trafficking hotline described in this clause shall be posted 
     in a visible place in all Federal buildings.''.

     SEC. 21. ENDING GOVERNMENT PARTNERSHIPS WITH THE COMMERCIAL 
                   SEX INDUSTRY.

       No Federal funds or resources may be used for the operation 
     of, participation in, or partnership with any program that 
     involves the provision of funding or resources to an 
     organization that--
       (1) has the primary purpose of providing adult 
     entertainment; and
       (2) derives profits from the commercial sex trade.

     SEC. 22. STUDY OF HUMAN TRAFFICKING VICTIM PRIVILEGE.

       Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this 
     Act, the Judicial Conference of the United States shall--
       (1) conduct a study on the necessity and desirability of 
     amending the Federal Rules of Evidence to establish a Federal 
     evidentiary privilege for confidential communications between 
     a victim of human trafficking, regardless of whether the 
     victim of human trafficking is a party to a legal action, and 
     a caseworker assisting the victim of human trafficking; and
       (2) submit to Congress a report on the study conducted 
     under paragraph (1).

     SEC. 23. UNDERSTANDING THE EFFECTS OF SEVERE FORMS OF 
                   TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS.

       (a) In General.--Title VI of the Justice for Victims of 
     Trafficking Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-22; 129 Stat. 258) is 
     amended by adding at the end the following:

     ``SEC. 607. UNDERSTANDING THE PHYSICAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL 
                   EFFECTS OF SEVERE FORMS OF TRAFFICKING IN 
                   PERSONS.

       ``(a) In General.--The National Institute of Justice and 
     the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shall jointly 
     conduct a study on the short-term and long-term physical and 
     psychological effects of serious harm (as that term is 
     defined in section 1589(c)(2) and section 1591(e)(4) of title 
     18, United States Code, as amended by the William Wilberforce 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 
     (Public Law 110-457; 122 Stat. 5044)) in order to determine 
     the most effective types of services for individuals who are 
     identified as victims of these crimes, including victims in 
     cases that were not investigated or prosecuted by any law 
     enforcement agency, and how new or current treatment and 
     programming options should be tailored to address the unique 
     needs and barriers associated with these victims.
       ``(b) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
     enactment of the Abolish Human Trafficking Act of 2017, the 
     National Institute of Justice and the Centers for Disease 
     Control and Prevention shall make available to the public the 
     results, including any associated recommendations, of the 
     study conducted under subsection (a).''.
       (b) Table of Contents Amendment.--The table of contents in 
     section 1(b) of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 
     2015 (Public Law 114-22; 129 Stat. 227) is amended by 
     inserting after the item relating to section 606 the 
     following:

``Sec. 607. Understanding the physical and psychological effects of 
              severe forms of trafficking in persons.''.

     SEC. 24. COMBATING TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS.

       (a) Trafficking Victims Prevention Act of 2000 Programs.--
     Section 113 of the Trafficking Victims Prevention Act of 2000 
     (22 U.S.C. 7110) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (b)--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``2014 through 2017'' and 
     inserting ``2018 through 2022.''; and
       (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``2014 through 2017'' and 
     inserting ``2018 through 2022''; and
       (2) in subsection (i), by striking ``2014 through 2017'' 
     and inserting ``2018 through 2022''.
       (b) Reinstatement and Reauthorization of Grants To Combat 
     Child Sex Trafficking.--
       (1) Reinstatement of expired provision.--
       (A) In general.--Section 202 of the Trafficking Victims 
     Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 14044a) is 
     amended to read as such section read on March 6, 2017.
       (B) Conforming amendment.--Section 1241(b) of the Violence 
     Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (42 U.S.C. 14044a 
     note) is repealed.
       (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) 
     shall take effect as though enacted on March 6, 2017.
       (3) Reauthorization.--Section 202(i) of the Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005, as amended by 
     paragraph (1), is amended to read as follows:
       ``(i) Funding.--For each of the fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022, the Attorney General is authorized to allocate up to 
     $8,000,000 of the amounts appropriated pursuant to section 
     113(d)(1) of the Trafficking Victims Prevention Act of 2000 
     (22 U.S.C. 7110(d)(1)) to carry out this section.''.

     SEC. 25. GRANT ACCOUNTABILITY.

       (a) Definitions.--In this section--
       (1) the term ``covered agency'' means an agency authorized 
     to award grants under this Act;
       (2) the term ``covered grant'' means a grant authorized to 
     be awarded under this Act; and
       (3) the term ``covered official'' means the head of a 
     covered agency.
       (b) Accountability.--All covered grants shall be subject to 
     the following accountability provisions:
       (1) Audit requirement.--
       (A) Definition.--In this paragraph, the term ``unresolved 
     audit finding'' means a finding in the final audit report of 
     the Inspector General of a covered agency that the audited 
     grantee has utilized funds under a covered grant for an 
     unauthorized expenditure or otherwise unallowable cost that 
     is not closed or resolved within 12 months from the date when 
     the final audit report is issued.
       (B) Audits.--Beginning in the first fiscal year beginning 
     after the date of enactment of this Act, and in each fiscal 
     year thereafter, the Inspector General of a covered agency 
     shall conduct audits of recipients of covered grants to 
     prevent waste, fraud, and abuse of funds by grantees. The 
     Inspector General shall determine the appropriate number of 
     grantees to be audited each year.
       (C) Mandatory exclusion.--A recipient of funds under a 
     covered grant that is found to have an unresolved audit 
     finding shall not be eligible to receive funds under a 
     covered grant during the first 2 fiscal years beginning after 
     the end of the 12-month period described in subparagraph (A).
       (D) Priority.--In awarding covered grants, a covered 
     official shall give priority to eligible applicants that did 
     not have an unresolved audit finding during the 3 fiscal 
     years before submitting an application for the covered grant.
       (E) Reimbursement.--If an entity is awarded funds under a 
     covered grant during the 2-fiscal-year period during which 
     the entity is barred from receiving covered grants under 
     subparagraph (C), a covered official shall--
       (i) deposit an amount equal to the amount of the grant 
     funds that were improperly awarded to the grantee into the 
     General Fund of the Treasury; and
       (ii) seek to recoup the costs of the repayment to the fund 
     from the recipient of the covered grant that was erroneously 
     awarded grant funds.
       (2) Nonprofit organization requirements.--
       (A) Definition.--For purposes of this paragraph and each 
     covered grant program, the term ``nonprofit organization'' 
     means an organization that is described in section 501(c)(3) 
     of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and is exempt from 
     taxation under section 501(a) of such Code.
       (B) Prohibition.--A covered grant may not be awarded to a 
     nonprofit organization that holds money in offshore accounts 
     for the purpose of avoiding paying the tax described in 
     section 511(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
       (C) Disclosure.--Each nonprofit organization that is 
     awarded a covered grant and uses the procedures prescribed in 
     regulations to create a rebuttable presumption of 
     reasonableness for the compensation of its officers, 
     directors, trustees, and key employees, shall disclose to the 
     applicable covered official, in the application for the 
     covered grant, the process for determining such compensation, 
     including the independent persons involved in reviewing and 
     approving such compensation, the comparability data used, and 
     contemporaneous substantiation of the deliberation and 
     decision. Upon request, a covered official shall make the 
     information disclosed under this subparagraph available for 
     public inspection.
       (3) Conference expenditures.--
       (A) Limitation.--No amounts made available to a covered 
     agency to carry out a covered grant program may be used by a 
     covered official, or by any individual or entity awarded 
     discretionary funds through a cooperative agreement under a 
     covered grant program, to host or support any expenditure for 
     conferences that uses more than $20,000 in funds made 
     available by the covered agency, unless the covered official 
     provides prior written authorization that the funds may be 
     expended to host the conference.
       (B) Written approval.--Written approval under subparagraph 
     (A) shall include a written estimate of all costs associated 
     with the conference, including the cost of all food, 
     beverages, audio-visual equipment, honoraria for speakers, 
     and entertainment.
       (C) Report.--
       (i) Department of justice.--The Deputy Attorney General 
     shall submit an annual report to the appropriate committees 
     of Congress on all conference expenditures approved under 
     this paragraph.
       (ii) Department of health and human services.--The Deputy 
     Secretary of Health and Human Services shall submit to the 
     appropriate committees of Congress an annual report on all 
     conference expenditures approved under this paragraph.
       (iii) Department of homeland security.--The Deputy 
     Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit to the 
     appropriate committees of Congress an annual report on all 
     conference expenditures approved under this paragraph.
       (4) Annual certification.--Beginning in the first fiscal 
     year beginning after the date of enactment of this Act, each 
     covered official shall submit to the appropriate committees 
     of Congress an annual certification--
       (A) indicating whether--
       (i) all audits issued by the Office of the Inspector 
     General of the applicable covered agency under paragraph (1) 
     have been completed and reviewed by the appropriate official;
       (ii) all mandatory exclusions required under paragraph 
     (1)(C) have been issued; and
       (iii) all reimbursements required under paragraph (1)(E) 
     have been made; and
       (B) that includes a list of any recipients of a covered 
     grant excluded under paragraph (1) from the previous year.
       (c) Preventing Duplicative Grants.--
       (1) In general.--Before a covered official awards a covered 
     grant, the covered official shall compare potential awards 
     under the covered grant program with other covered grants 
     awarded to determine if duplicate grant awards are awarded 
     for the same purpose.
       (2) Report.--If a covered official awards duplicate covered 
     grants to the same applicant for

[[Page S5174]]

     the same purpose the covered official shall submit to the 
     appropriate committees of Congress a report that includes--
       (A) a list of all duplicate covered grants awarded, 
     including the total dollar amount of any duplicate covered 
     grants awarded; and
       (B) the reason the covered official awarded the duplicate 
     covered grants.

     SEC. 26. HERO ACT IMPROVEMENTS.

       (a) In General.--Section 890A of the Homeland Security Act 
     of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 473) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (b)--
       (A) in paragraph (2)(C), by inserting after ``personnel'' 
     the following: ``, which shall include participating in 
     training for Homeland Security Investigations personnel 
     conducted by Internet Crimes Against Children Task Forces''; 
     and
       (B) in paragraph (3)--
       (i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``in child 
     exploitation investigations'' after ``Enforcement'';
       (ii) in subparagraph (B)--

       (I) in the matter preceding clause (i), by inserting ``in 
     child exploitation investigations'' after ``Enforcement''; 
     and
       (II) in clause (i), by inserting ``child'' before 
     ``victims'';

       (iii) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``child 
     exploitation'' after ``number of''; and
       (iv) in subparagraph (D), by inserting ``child 
     exploitation'' after ``number of''; and
       (2) in subsection (c)(2)--
       (A) in subparagraph (A), in the matter preceding clause 
     (i), by inserting ``and administer the Digital Forensics and 
     Document and Media Exploitation (DF/DOMEX) program'' after 
     ``forensics'';
       (B) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``and emerging 
     technologies'' after ``forensics''; and
       (C) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``and the National 
     Association to Protect Children'' and inserting ``, the 
     National Association to Protect Children, and other 
     governmental entities''.
       (b) HERO Child-Rescue Corps.--Section 890A of the Homeland 
     Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 473) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (g); and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following:
       ``(e) HERO Child-Rescue Corps.--
       ``(1) Establishment.--
       ``(A) In general.--There is established within the Center a 
     Human Exploitation Rescue Operation Child-Rescue Corps 
     Program (referred to in this subsection as the `HERO Child-
     Rescue Corps Program'), which shall be a Department-wide 
     program, operated in partnership with the Department of 
     Defense and the National Association to Protect Children.
       ``(B) Training requirement.--As part of the HERO Child-
     Rescue Corps Program, the National Association to Protect 
     Children shall provide logistical support for program 
     participants.
       ``(2) Purpose.--The purpose of the HERO Child-Rescue Corps 
     Program shall be to recruit, train, equip, and employ 
     wounded, ill, and injured veterans and transitioning members 
     of the military within the Department or other participating 
     agencies, in employment positions to assist in combating and 
     preventing child exploitation, including investigative, 
     intelligence, analyst, inspection, and forensic positions or 
     any other positions determined appropriate by the employing 
     agency.
       ``(3) Functions.--The HERO Child-Rescue Program shall--
       ``(A) provide, recruit, train, and equip participants of 
     the Program in the areas of digital forensics, investigation, 
     analysis, intelligence, and victim identification, as 
     determined by the Center and the needs of the Department; and
       ``(B) ensure that during the 1-year period beginning on the 
     date of enactment of this subsection, participants of the 
     Program are assigned to investigate and analyze--
       ``(i) child exploitation;
       ``(ii) child pornography;
       ``(iii) unidentified child victims;
       ``(iv) human trafficking;
       ``(v) traveling child sex offenders; and
       ``(vi) forced child labor, including the sexual 
     exploitation of minors.
       ``(4) Paid internship and hiring program.--
       ``(A) In general.--Subject to the availability of 
     appropriations for such purpose, the Secretary may use funds 
     available for operations and support to establish a paid 
     internship and hiring program for the purpose of placing 
     participants of the HERO Child-Rescue Corps Program into paid 
     internship positions, with the intent of subsequent 
     appointment of the participants to permanent positions, as 
     described in subparagraph (C).
       ``(B) Internship positions.--Under the paid internship and 
     hiring program required to be established under subparagraph 
     (A), the Secretary may appoint not more than 72 individuals 
     to internship positions in the Center per year--
       ``(i) which shall be in addition to any internship or 
     staffing positions within United States Immigration and 
     Customs Enforcement in existence on the date enactment of 
     this subsection; and
       ``(ii) who shall be assigned or detailed by the Center in 
     accordance with subparagraph (C).
       ``(C) Placement.--
       ``(i) In general.--An individual who is appointed to an 
     internship position under this paragraph shall be assigned or 
     detailed to a position in an agency that--

       ``(I) has expressed the need to fill a vacancy;
       ``(II) anticipates making an appointment to a full-time 
     position upon completion of the internship; and
       ``(III) accepts the training parameters as determined by 
     the Center to be the standard of the Department for the HERO 
     Child-Rescue Corps Program.

       ``(ii) Preference.--The Secretary shall give a preference 
     to Homeland Security Investigations in assignments or details 
     under clause (i).
       ``(D) Term of internship.--An appointment to an internship 
     position under this paragraph shall be for a period not to 
     exceed 12 months.
       ``(E) Rate and term of pay.--After completion of initial 
     group training and upon beginning work at an assigned office, 
     an individual appointed to an internship position under this 
     paragraph who is not receiving monthly basic pay as a member 
     of the Armed Forces on active duty shall receive compensation 
     at a rate that is--
       ``(i) not less than the minimum rate of basic pay payable 
     for a position at level GS-5 of the General Schedule; and
       ``(ii) not more than the maximum rate of basic pay payable 
     for a position at level GS-7 of the General Schedule.
       ``(F) Eligibility.--In establishing the paid internship and 
     hiring program required under subparagraph (A), the Secretary 
     shall ensure that the eligibility requirements for 
     participation in the internship program are the same as the 
     eligibility requirements for participation in the HERO Child-
     Rescue Corps Program.
       ``(f) HERO Corps Hiring.--Subject to the availability of 
     appropriations for such purpose, there are authorized to be 
     established within Homeland Security Investigations the 
     following number of positions, which shall be in addition to 
     any positions in existence on the date of enactment of this 
     subsection, for the hiring and permanent employment of 
     graduates of the paid internship and hiring program required 
     to be established under subsection (e)(4):
       ``(1) 36 positions in fiscal year 2017.
       ``(2) 72 positions in fiscal year 2018.
       ``(3) 108 positions in fiscal year 2019.
       ``(4) 144 positions in fiscal year 2020.
       ``(5) 180 positions in fiscal year 2021.''.
       (c) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--Section 302 of the 
     HERO Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-22; 129 Stat. 255) is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking subsection (c); and
       (2) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (c).
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
committee-reported amendment be considered, the Cornyn amendment at the 
desk be considered and agreed to, the committee-reported amendment, as 
amended, be agreed to, the bill, as amended, be considered read a third 
time and passed, and the motion to reconsider be considered made and 
laid upon the table.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The amendment (No. 936) was agreed to, as follows:

                     (Purpose: To improve the bill)

       On page 41, in the matter preceding line 1, strike the 
     items relating to sections 22 through 26 and insert the 
     following:

Sec. 22. Understanding the effects of severe forms of trafficking in 
              persons.
Sec. 23. Combating trafficking in persons.
Sec. 24. Grant accountability.
Sec. 25. HERO Act improvements.

       On page 41, between lines 15 and 16, insert the following:
       (2) in subsection (e)(1), in the matter preceding 
     subparagraph (A), by striking ``2019'' and inserting 
     ``2023'';
       On page 41, line 16, strike ``(2)'' and insert ``(3)''.
       On page 41, line 20, strike ``(3) in'' and insert ``(4) 
     in''.
       On page 63, strike lines 1 through 16 and insert the 
     following:

     SEC. 22. UNDERSTANDING THE EFFECTS OF SEVERE FORMS OF 
                   TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS.

       On page 65, strike line 1 and insert the following:

     SEC. 23. COMBATING TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS.

       On page 66, strike line 13 and insert the following:

     SEC. 24. GRANT ACCOUNTABILITY.

       On page 72, strike lines 21 through 24 and insert the 
     following:

     SEC. 25. HERO ACT IMPROVEMENTS.

       (a) In General.--Section 890A of the Homeland Security Act 
     of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 473) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``Homeland Security 
     Investigations,'' after ``Customs Enforcement,''; and
       (B) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
       ``(2) Purpose.--The Center shall provide investigative 
     assistance, training, and equipment to support domestic and 
     international investigations of cyber-related crimes by the 
     Department.'';
       (2) in subsection (b)--
       On page 73, strike lines 7 through 10 and insert the 
     following:
       (i) in subparagraph (B)--
       On page 73, line 17, strike ``(iii)'' and insert ``(ii)''.
       On page 73, line 19, strike ``(iv)'' and insert ``(iii)''.
       On page 73, line 21, strike ``(2) in'' and insert ``(3) 
     in''.
       On page 74, line 1, strike ``(DF/DOMEX)''.
       On page 74, line 13, strike ``and''.
       On page 74, strike line 16 and all that follows through 
     page 79, line 15, and insert the following:
       ``(e) HERO Child-Rescue Corps.--
       ``(1) Establishment.--
       ``(A) In general.--There is established within the Center a 
     Human Exploitation Rescue Operation Child-Rescue Corps 
     Program (referred to in this section as the

[[Page S5175]]

     `HERO Child-Rescue Corps Program'), which shall be a 
     Department-wide program, in collaboration with the Department 
     of Defense and the National Association to Protect Children.
       ``(B) Private sector collaboration.--As part of the HERO 
     Child-Rescue Corps Program, the National Association to 
     Protect Children shall provide logistical support for program 
     participants.
       ``(2) Purpose.--The purpose of the HERO Child-Rescue Corps 
     Program shall be to recruit, train, equip, and employ members 
     of the Armed Forces on active duty and wounded, ill, and 
     injured veterans to combat and prevent child exploitation, 
     including in investigative, intelligence, analyst, 
     inspection, and forensic positions or any other positions 
     determined appropriate by the employing agency.
       ``(3) Functions.--The HERO Child-Rescue Program shall--
       ``(A) provide, recruit, train, and equip participants of 
     the Program in the areas of digital forensics, investigation, 
     analysis, intelligence, and victim identification, as 
     determined by the Center and the needs of the Department; and
       ``(B) ensure that during the internship period, 
     participants of the Program are assigned to investigate and 
     analyze--
       ``(i) child exploitation;
       ``(ii) child pornography;
       ``(iii) unidentified child victims;
       ``(iv) human trafficking;
       ``(v) traveling child sex offenders; and
       ``(vi) forced child labor, including the sexual 
     exploitation of minors.
       ``(f) Paid Internship and Hiring Program.--
       ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a paid 
     internship and hiring program for the purpose of placing 
     participants of the HERO Child-Rescue Corps Program (in this 
     subsection referred to as `participants') into paid 
     internship positions, for the subsequent appointment of the 
     participants to permanent positions, as described in the 
     guidelines promulgated under paragraph (3).
       ``(2) Internship positions.--Under the paid internship and 
     hiring program required to be established under paragraph 
     (1), the Secretary shall assign or detail participants to 
     positions within United States Immigration and Customs 
     Enforcement or any other Federal agency in accordance with 
     the guidelines promulgated under paragraph (3).
       ``(3) Placement.--
       ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall promulgate 
     guidelines for assigning or detailing participants to 
     positions within United States Immigration and Customs 
     Enforcement and other Federal agencies, which shall include 
     requirements for internship duties and agreements regarding 
     the subsequent appointment of the participants to permanent 
     positions.
       ``(B) Preference.--The Secretary shall give a preference to 
     Homeland Security Investigations in assignments or details 
     under the guidelines promulgated under subparagraph (A).
       ``(4) Term of internship.--An appointment to an internship 
     position under this subsection shall be for a term not to 
     exceed 12 months.
       ``(5) Rate and term of pay.--After completion of initial 
     group training and upon beginning work at an assigned office, 
     a participant appointed to an internship position under this 
     subsection who is not receiving monthly basic pay as a member 
     of the Armed Forces on active duty shall receive compensation 
     at a rate that is--
       ``(A) not less than the minimum rate of basic pay payable 
     for a position at level GS-5 of the General Schedule; and
       ``(B) not more than the maximum rate of basic pay payable 
     for a position at level GS-7 of the General Schedule.
       ``(6) Eligibility.--In establishing the paid internship and 
     hiring program required under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
     shall ensure that the eligibility requirements for 
     participation in the internship program are the same as the 
     eligibility requirements for participation in the HERO Child-
     Rescue Corps Program.
       ``(7) Hero corps hiring.--The Secretary shall establish 
     within Homeland Security Investigations positions, which 
     shall be in addition to any positions in existence on the 
     date of enactment of this subsection, for the hiring and 
     permanent employment of graduates of the paid internship 
     program required to be established under paragraph (1).''; 
     and
       (3) in subsection (g), as so redesignated--
       (A) by striking ``There are authorized'' and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(1) In general.--There are authorized''; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(2) Allocation.--Of the amount made available pursuant to 
     paragraph (1) in each of fiscal years 2018 through 2022, not 
     more than $10,000,000 shall be used to carry out subsection 
     (e) and not less than $2,000,000 shall be used to carry out 
     subsection (f).''.
  The committee-reported amendment in the nature of a substitute, as 
amended, was agreed to.
  The bill (S. 1311), as amended, was ordered to be engrossed for a 
third reading, was read the third time, and passed, as follows:

                                S. 1311

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

       (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Abolish 
     Human Trafficking Act of 2017''.
       (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act 
     is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Preserving Domestic Trafficking Victims' Fund.
Sec. 3. Mandatory restitution for victims of commercial sexual 
              exploitation.
Sec. 4. Victim-witness assistance in sexual exploitation cases.
Sec. 5. Victim protection training for the Department of Homeland 
              Security.
Sec. 6. Implementing a victim-centered approach to human trafficking.
Sec. 7. Direct services for child victims of human trafficking.
Sec. 8. Holistic training for Federal law enforcement officers and 
              prosecutors.
Sec. 9. Best practices in delivering justice for victims of 
              trafficking.
Sec. 10. Improving the national strategy to combat human trafficking.
Sec. 11. Specialized human trafficking training and technical 
              assistance for service providers.
Sec. 12. Enhanced penalties for human trafficking, child exploitation, 
              and repeat offenders.
Sec. 13. Targeting organized human trafficking perpetrators.
Sec. 14. Investigating complex human trafficking networks.
Sec. 15. Combating sex tourism.
Sec. 16. Human Trafficking Justice Coordinators.
Sec. 17. Interagency Task Force to Monitor and Combat Human 
              Trafficking.
Sec. 18. Additional reporting on crime.
Sec. 19. Making the Presidential Survivor Council permanent.
Sec. 20. Strengthening the national human trafficking hotline.
Sec. 21. Ending Government partnerships with the commercial sex 
              industry.
Sec. 22. Understanding the effects of severe forms of trafficking in 
              persons.
Sec. 23. Combating trafficking in persons.
Sec. 24. Grant accountability.
Sec. 25. HERO Act improvements.

     SEC. 2. PRESERVING DOMESTIC TRAFFICKING VICTIMS' FUND.

       (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     the Domestic Trafficking Victims' Fund established under 
     section 3014 of title 18, United States Code--
       (1) is intended to supplement, and not supplant, any other 
     funding for domestic trafficking victims; and
       (2) has achieved the objective described in paragraph (1) 
     since the establishment of the Fund.
       (b) Ensuring Full Funding.--Section 3014 of title 18, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding paragraph 
     (1), by striking ``September 30, 2019'' and inserting 
     ``September 30, 2023'';
       (2) in subsection (e)(1), in the matter preceding 
     subparagraph (A), by striking ``2019'' and inserting 
     ``2023'';
       (3) in subsection (f), by inserting ``, including the 
     mandatory imposition of civil remedies for satisfaction of an 
     unpaid fine as authorized under section 3613, where 
     appropriate'' after ``criminal cases''; and
       (4) in subsection (h)(3), by inserting ``and child victims 
     of a severe form of trafficking (as defined in section 103 of 
     the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 
     2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102))'' after ``child pornography victims''.

     SEC. 3. MANDATORY RESTITUTION FOR VICTIMS OF COMMERCIAL 
                   SEXUAL EXPLOITATION.

       (a) Amendment.--Chapter 117 of title 18, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

     ``Sec. 2429. Mandatory restitution

       ``(a) Notwithstanding section 3663 or 3663A, and in 
     addition to any other civil or criminal penalty authorized by 
     law, the court shall order restitution for any offense under 
     this chapter.
       ``(b)(1) The order of restitution under this section shall 
     direct the defendant to pay the victim (through the 
     appropriate court mechanism) the full amount of the victim's 
     losses, as determined by the court under paragraph (3), and 
     shall additionally require the defendant to pay the greater 
     of the gross income or value to the defendant of the victim's 
     services, if the services constitute commercial sex acts as 
     defined under section 1591.
       ``(2) An order of restitution under this section shall be 
     issued and enforced in accordance with section 3664 in the 
     same manner as an order under section 3663A.
       ``(3) As used in this subsection, the term `full amount of 
     the victim's losses' has the same meaning as provided in 
     section 2259(b)(3).
       ``(c) The forfeiture of property under this section shall 
     be governed by the provisions of section 413 (other than 
     subsection (d) of such section) of the Controlled Substances 
     Act (21 U.S.C. 853).
       ``(d) As used in this section, the term `victim' means the 
     individual harmed as a result of a crime under this chapter, 
     including, in the case of a victim who is under 18 years of 
     age, incompetent, incapacitated, or deceased, the legal 
     guardian of the victim or a representative of the victim's 
     estate, or another family member, or any other person

[[Page S5176]]

     appointed as suitable by the court, but in no event shall the 
     defendant be named such representative or guardian.''.
       (b) Table of Sections.--The table of sections for chapter 
     117 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
     after the item relating to section 2428 the following:

``2429. Mandatory restitution.''.

     SEC. 4. VICTIM-WITNESS ASSISTANCE IN SEXUAL EXPLOITATION 
                   CASES.

       (a) Availability of DOJ Appropriations.--Section 
     524(c)(1)(B) of title 28, United States Code, is amended by 
     inserting ``, chapter 110 of title 18'' after ``chapter 77 of 
     title 18''.
       (b) Amendment to Title 31.--Section 9705(a)(2)(B)(v) of 
     title 31, United States Code, is amended by inserting ``, 
     chapter 109A of title 18 (relating to sexual abuse), chapter 
     110 of title 18 (relating to child sexual exploitation), or 
     chapter 117 of title 18 (relating to transportation for 
     illegal sexual activity and related crimes)'' after 
     ``(relating to human trafficking)''.

     SEC. 5. VICTIM PROTECTION TRAINING FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF 
                   HOMELAND SECURITY.

       (a) In General.--Title IX of the Justice for Victims of 
     Trafficking Act of 2015 (6 U.S.C. 641 et seq.) is amended by 
     adding at the end the following:

     ``SEC. 906. VICTIM PROTECTION TRAINING FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF 
                   HOMELAND SECURITY.

       ``(a) Directive to DHS Law Enforcement Officials and Task 
     Forces.--
       ``(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
     of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall issue a 
     directive to--
       ``(A) all Federal law enforcement officers and relevant 
     personnel employed by the Department who may be involved in 
     the investigation of human trafficking offenses; and
       ``(B) members of all task forces led by the Department that 
     participate in the investigation of human trafficking 
     offenses.
       ``(2) Required instructions.--The directive required to be 
     issued under paragraph (1) shall include instructions on--
       ``(A) the investigation of individuals who patronize or 
     solicit human trafficking victims as being engaged in severe 
     trafficking in persons and how such individuals should be 
     investigated for their roles in severe trafficking in 
     persons; and
       ``(B) how victims of sex or labor trafficking often engage 
     in criminal acts as a direct result of severe trafficking in 
     persons and such individuals are victims of a crime and 
     affirmative measures should be taken to avoid arresting, 
     charging, or prosecuting such individuals for any offense 
     that is the direct result of their victimization.
       ``(b) Victim Screening Protocol.--
       ``(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
     of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall issue a 
     screening protocol for use during all anti-trafficking law 
     enforcement operations in which the Department is involved.
       ``(2) Requirements.--The protocol required to be issued 
     under paragraph (1) shall--
       ``(A) require the individual screening of all adults and 
     children who are suspected of engaging in commercial sex 
     acts, child labor that is a violation of law, or work in 
     violation of labor standards to determine whether each 
     individual screened is a victim of human trafficking;
       ``(B) require affirmative measures to avoid arresting, 
     charging, or prosecuting human trafficking victims for any 
     offense that is the direct result of their victimization;
       ``(C) be developed in consultation with relevant 
     interagency partners and nongovernmental organizations that 
     specialize in the prevention of human trafficking or in the 
     identification and support of victims of human trafficking 
     and survivors of human trafficking; and
       ``(D) include--
       ``(i) procedures and practices to ensure that the screening 
     process minimizes trauma or revictimization of the person 
     being screened; and
       ``(ii) guidelines on assisting victims of human trafficking 
     in identifying and receiving restorative services.
       ``(c) Mandatory Training.--The training described in 
     sections 902 and 904 shall include training necessary to 
     implement--
       ``(1) the directive required under subsection (a); and
       ``(2) the protocol required under subsection (b).''.
       (b) Table of Contents Amendment.--The table of contents in 
     section 1(b) of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 
     2015 (Public Law 114-22; 129 Stat. 227) is amended by 
     inserting after the item relating to section 905 the 
     following:

``Sec. 906. Victim protection training for the Department of Homeland 
              Security.''.

     SEC. 6. IMPLEMENTING A VICTIM-CENTERED APPROACH TO HUMAN 
                   TRAFFICKING.

       Section 107(b)(2) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act 
     of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7105(b)(2)) is amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (B)(ii); by striking the period at the 
     end and inserting ``; and''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(D) Priority.--In selecting recipients of grants under 
     this paragraph that are only available for law enforcement 
     operations or task forces, the Attorney General may give 
     priority to any applicant that files an attestation with the 
     Attorney General stating that--
       ``(i) the grant funds--

       ``(I) will be used to assist in the prevention of severe 
     forms of trafficking in persons in accordance with Federal 
     law;
       ``(II) will be used to strengthen efforts to investigate 
     and prosecute those who knowingly benefit financially from 
     participation in a venture that has engaged in any act of 
     human trafficking;
       ``(III) will be used to take affirmative measures to avoid 
     arresting, charging, or prosecuting victims of human 
     trafficking for any offense that is the direct result of 
     their victimization; and
       ``(IV) will not be used to require a victim of human 
     trafficking to collaborate with law enforcement officers as a 
     condition of access to any shelter or restorative services; 
     and

       ``(ii) the applicant will provide dedicated resources for 
     anti-human trafficking law enforcement for a period that is 
     longer than the duration of the grant received under this 
     paragraph.''.

     SEC. 7. DIRECT SERVICES FOR CHILD VICTIMS OF HUMAN 
                   TRAFFICKING.

       Section 214(b) of the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 
     (42 U.S.C. 13002(b)) is amended--
       (1) in the heading by inserting ``Child Victims of a Severe 
     Form of Trafficking in Persons and'' before ``Victims of 
     Child Pornography''; and
       (2) by inserting ``victims of a severe form of trafficking 
     (as defined in section 103 of the Trafficking Victims 
     Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102(9)(A))) who were under 
     the age of 18 at the time of the offense and'' before 
     ``victims of child pornography''.

     SEC. 8. HOLISTIC TRAINING FOR FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT 
                   OFFICERS AND PROSECUTORS.

       All training required under the Combat Human Trafficking 
     Act of 2015 (42 U.S.C. 14044g) and section 105(c)(4) of the 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
     7105(c)(4)) shall--
       (1) emphasize that an individual who knowingly solicits or 
     patronizes a commercial sex act from a person who was a minor 
     (consistent with section 1591(c) of title 18, United States 
     Code) or was subject to force, fraud, or coercion is guilty 
     of an offense under chapter 77 of title 18, United States 
     Code, and is a party to a human trafficking offense;
       (2) develop specific curriculum for--
       (A) under appropriate circumstances, arresting and 
     prosecuting buyers of commercial sex, child labor that is a 
     violation of law, or forced labor as a form of primary 
     prevention; and
       (B) investigating and prosecuting individuals who knowingly 
     benefit financially from participation in a venture that has 
     engaged in any act of human trafficking; and
       (3) specify that any comprehensive approach to eliminating 
     human trafficking shall include a demand reduction component.

     SEC. 9. BEST PRACTICES IN DELIVERING JUSTICE FOR VICTIMS OF 
                   TRAFFICKING.

       Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this 
     Act, the Attorney General shall issue guidance to all offices 
     and components of the Department of Justice--
       (1) emphasizing that an individual who knowingly solicits 
     or patronizes a commercial sex act from a person who was a 
     minor (consistent with section 1591(c) of title 18, United 
     States Code) or was subject to force, fraud, or coercion is 
     guilty of an offense under chapter 77 of title 18, United 
     States Code, and is a party to a severe form of trafficking 
     in persons, as that term is defined in section 103(9) of the 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
     7102(9));
       (2) recommending and implementing best practices for the 
     collection of special assessments under section 3014 of title 
     18, United States Code, as added by section 101 of the 
     Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015 (Public Law 
     114-22; 129 Stat. 228), including a directive that civil 
     liens are an authorized collection method and remedy under 
     section 3613 of title 18, United States Code; and
       (3) clarifying that commercial sexual exploitation is a 
     form of gender-based violence.

     SEC. 10. IMPROVING THE NATIONAL STRATEGY TO COMBAT HUMAN 
                   TRAFFICKING.

       Section 606(b) of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking 
     Act of 2015 (42 U.S.C. 14044h(b)) is amended by adding at the 
     end the following:
       ``(6) A national strategy to prevent human trafficking and 
     reduce demand for human trafficking victims.''.

     SEC. 11. SPECIALIZED HUMAN TRAFFICKING TRAINING AND TECHNICAL 
                   ASSISTANCE FOR SERVICE PROVIDERS.

       (a) In General.--Section 111 of the Violence Against Women 
     and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 
     U.S.C. 14044f) is amended--
       (1) in the heading, by striking ``law enforcement training 
     programs'' and inserting ``specialized human trafficking 
     training and technical assistance for service providers'';
       (2) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ``means a State or a 
     local government.'' and inserting the following: ``means--
       ``(A) a State or unit of local government;
       ``(B) a federally recognized Indian tribal government, as 
     determined by the Secretary of the Interior;
       ``(C) a victim service provider;
       ``(D) a nonprofit or for-profit organization (including a 
     tribal nonprofit or for-profit organization);
       ``(E) a national organization; or
       ``(F) an institution of higher education (including tribal 
     institutions of higher education).'';

[[Page S5177]]

       (3) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
       ``(b) Grants Authorized.--The Attorney General may award 
     grants to eligible entities to--
       ``(1) provide training to identify and protect victims of 
     trafficking;
       ``(2) improve the quality and quantity of services offered 
     to trafficking survivors; and
       ``(3) improve victim service providers' partnerships with 
     Federal, State, tribal, and local law enforcement agencies 
     and other relevant entities.''; and
       (4) in subsection (c)--
       (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``or'' at the end;
       (B) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and 
     inserting a semicolon; and
       (C) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
       ``(4) provide technical assistance on the range of services 
     available to victim service providers who serve trafficking 
     victims;
       ``(5) develop and distribute materials, including materials 
     identifying best practices in accordance with Federal law and 
     policies, to support victim service providers working with 
     human trafficking victims;
       ``(6) identify and disseminate other publicly available 
     materials in accordance with Federal law to help build 
     capacity of service providers;
       ``(7) provide training at relevant conferences, through 
     webinars, or through other mechanisms in accordance with 
     Federal law; or
       ``(8) assist service providers in developing additional 
     resources such as partnerships with Federal, State, tribal, 
     and local law enforcement agencies and other relevant 
     entities in order to access a range of available services in 
     accordance with Federal law.''.
       (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of 
     contents in section 2 of the Violence Against Women and 
     Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 
     109-162; 119 Stat. 2960) is amended by striking the item 
     relating to section 111 and inserting the following:

``Sec. 111. Grants for specialized human trafficking training and 
              technical assistance for service providers.''.

     SEC. 12. ENHANCED PENALTIES FOR HUMAN TRAFFICKING, CHILD 
                   EXPLOITATION, AND REPEAT OFFENDERS.

       Part I of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in chapter 77--
       (A) in section 1583(a), in the flush text following 
     paragraph (3), by striking ``not more than 20 years'' and 
     inserting ``not more than 30 years'';
       (B) in section 1587, by striking ``four years'' and 
     inserting ``10 years''; and
       (C) in section 1591(d), by striking ``20 years'' and 
     inserting ``25 years''; and
       (2) in section 2426--
       (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``twice'' and inserting 
     ``3 times''; and
       (B) in subsection (b)(1)(B) by striking ``paragraph (1)'' 
     and inserting ``subparagraph (A)''.

     SEC. 13. TARGETING ORGANIZED HUMAN TRAFFICKING PERPETRATORS.

       Section 521(c) of title 18, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (2) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4);
       (3) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
       ``(3) a Federal offense involving human trafficking, sexual 
     abuse, sexual exploitation, or transportation for 
     prostitution or any illegal sexual activity; and''; and
       (4) in paragraph (4), as so redesignated, by striking ``(1) 
     or (2)'' and inserting ``(1), (2), or (3)''.

     SEC. 14. INVESTIGATING COMPLEX HUMAN TRAFFICKING NETWORKS.

       Section 2516 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (1)(c)--
       (A) by inserting ``section 1582 (vessels for slave trade), 
     section 1583 (enticement into slavery),'' after ``section 
     1581 (peonage),''; and
       (B) by inserting ``section 1585 (seizure, detention, 
     transportation or sale of slaves), section 1586 (service on 
     vessels in slave trade), section 1587 (possession of slaves 
     aboard vessel), section 1588 (transportation of slaves from 
     United States),'' after ``section 1584 (involuntary 
     servitude),''; and
       (2) in subsection (2)--
       (A) by striking ``kidnapping human'' and inserting 
     ``kidnapping, human''; and
       (B) by striking ``production, ,'' and inserting 
     ``production, prostitution,''.

     SEC. 15. COMBATING SEX TOURISM.

       Section 2423 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``for the purpose'' and 
     inserting ``with a motivating purpose''; and
       (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``for the purpose of 
     engaging'' and inserting ``with a motivating purpose of 
     engaging''.

     SEC. 16. HUMAN TRAFFICKING JUSTICE COORDINATORS.

       Section 606 of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act 
     of 2015 (42 U.S.C. 14044h) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (b)(1)--
       (A) by striking subparagraph (B); and
       (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (C) and (D) as 
     subparagraphs (B) and (C), respectively; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(c) Human Trafficking Justice Coordinators.--The Attorney 
     General shall designate in each Federal judicial district not 
     less than 1 assistant United States attorney to serve as the 
     Human Trafficking Coordinator for the district who, in 
     addition to any other responsibilities, works with a human 
     trafficking victim-witness specialist and shall be 
     responsible for--
       ``(1) implementing the National Strategy with respect to 
     all forms of human trafficking, including labor trafficking 
     and sex trafficking;
       ``(2) prosecuting, or assisting in the prosecution of, 
     human trafficking cases;
       ``(3) conducting public outreach and awareness activities 
     relating to human trafficking;
       ``(4) ensuring the collection of data required to be 
     collected under clause (viii) of section 105(d)(7)(Q) of the 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
     7103(d)(7)(Q)), as added by section 17 of the Abolish Human 
     Trafficking Act of 2017, is sought;
       ``(5) coordinating with other Federal agencies, State, 
     tribal, and local law enforcement agencies, victim service 
     providers, and other relevant non-governmental organizations 
     to build partnerships on activities relating to human 
     trafficking; and
       ``(6) ensuring the collection of restitution for victims is 
     sought as required to be ordered under section 1593 of title 
     18, United States Code, and section 2429 of such title, as 
     added by section 3 of the Abolish Human Trafficking Act of 
     2017.
       ``(d) Department of Justice Coordinator.--Not later than 60 
     days after the date of enactment of the Abolish Human 
     Trafficking Act of 2017, the Attorney General shall designate 
     an official who shall coordinate human trafficking efforts 
     within the Department of Justice who, in addition to any 
     other responsibilities, shall be responsible for--
       ``(1) coordinating, promoting, and supporting the work of 
     the Department of Justice relating to human trafficking, 
     including investigation, prosecution, training, outreach, 
     victim support, grant-making, and policy activities;
       ``(2) in consultation with survivors of human trafficking, 
     or anti-human trafficking organizations, producing and 
     disseminating, including making publicly available when 
     appropriate, replication guides and training materials for 
     law enforcement officers, prosecutors, judges, emergency 
     responders, individuals working in victim services, adult and 
     child protective services, social services, and public 
     safety, medical personnel, mental health personnel, financial 
     services personnel, and any other individuals whose work may 
     bring them in contact with human trafficking regarding how 
     to--
       ``(A) identify signs of human trafficking;
       ``(B) conduct investigations in human trafficking cases;
       ``(C) address evidentiary issues and other legal issues; 
     and
       ``(D) appropriately assess, respond to, and interact with 
     victims and witnesses in human trafficking cases, including 
     in administrative, civil, and criminal judicial proceedings; 
     and
       ``(3) carrying out such other duties as the Attorney 
     General determines necessary in connection with enhancing the 
     understanding, prevention, and detection of, and response to, 
     human trafficking.''.

     SEC. 17. INTERAGENCY TASK FORCE TO MONITOR AND COMBAT HUMAN 
                   TRAFFICKING.

       Section 105(d)(7)(Q) of the Trafficking Victims Protection 
     Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7103(d)(7)(Q)) is amended--
       (1) in clause (vi), by striking ``and'' at the end; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(viii) the number of convictions obtained under chapter 
     77 of title 18, United States Code, aggregated separately by 
     the form of offense committed with respect to the victim, 
     including recruiting, enticing, harboring, transporting, 
     providing, obtaining, advertising, maintaining, patronizing, 
     or soliciting a human trafficking victim; and''.

     SEC. 18. ADDITIONAL REPORTING ON CRIME.

       Section 237(b) of the William Wilberforce Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 (28 U.S.C. 534 
     note) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and 
     inserting a semicolon; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(4) incidents of assisting or promoting prostitution, 
     child labor that is a violation of law, or forced labor of an 
     individual under the age of 18 as described in paragraph (1); 
     and
       ``(5) incidents of purchasing or soliciting commercial sex 
     acts, child labor that is a violation of law, or forced labor 
     with an individual under the age of 18 as described in 
     paragraph (2).''.

     SEC. 19. MAKING THE PRESIDENTIAL SURVIVOR COUNCIL PERMANENT.

       Section 115 of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act 
     of 2015 (Public Law 114-22; 129 Stat. 243) is amended by 
     striking subsection (h).

     SEC. 20. STRENGTHENING THE NATIONAL HUMAN TRAFFICKING 
                   HOTLINE.

       (a) Reporting Requirement.--Section 105(d)(3) of the 
     Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 
     (22 U.S.C. 7103(d)(3)) is amended--

[[Page S5178]]

       (1) by inserting ``and providing an annual report on the 
     case referrals received from the national human trafficking 
     hotline by Federal departments and agencies'' after 
     ``international trafficking''; and
       (2) by inserting ``and reporting requirements'' after ``Any 
     data collection procedures''.
       (b) Hotline Information.--Section 107(b)(1)(B)(ii) of such 
     Act (22 U.S.C. 7105(b)(1)(B)(ii)) is amended by adding at the 
     end the following: ``The number of the national human 
     trafficking hotline described in this clause shall be posted 
     in a visible place in all Federal buildings.''.

     SEC. 21. ENDING GOVERNMENT PARTNERSHIPS WITH THE COMMERCIAL 
                   SEX INDUSTRY.

       No Federal funds or resources may be used for the operation 
     of, participation in, or partnership with any program that 
     involves the provision of funding or resources to an 
     organization that--
       (1) has the primary purpose of providing adult 
     entertainment; and
       (2) derives profits from the commercial sex trade.

     SEC. 22. UNDERSTANDING THE EFFECTS OF SEVERE FORMS OF 
                   TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS.

       (a) In General.--Title VI of the Justice for Victims of 
     Trafficking Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-22; 129 Stat. 258) is 
     amended by adding at the end the following:

     ``SEC. 607. UNDERSTANDING THE PHYSICAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL 
                   EFFECTS OF SEVERE FORMS OF TRAFFICKING IN 
                   PERSONS.

       ``(a) In General.--The National Institute of Justice and 
     the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shall jointly 
     conduct a study on the short-term and long-term physical and 
     psychological effects of serious harm (as that term is 
     defined in section 1589(c)(2) and section 1591(e)(4) of title 
     18, United States Code, as amended by the William Wilberforce 
     Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 
     (Public Law 110-457; 122 Stat. 5044)) in order to determine 
     the most effective types of services for individuals who are 
     identified as victims of these crimes, including victims in 
     cases that were not investigated or prosecuted by any law 
     enforcement agency, and how new or current treatment and 
     programming options should be tailored to address the unique 
     needs and barriers associated with these victims.
       ``(b) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
     enactment of the Abolish Human Trafficking Act of 2017, the 
     National Institute of Justice and the Centers for Disease 
     Control and Prevention shall make available to the public the 
     results, including any associated recommendations, of the 
     study conducted under subsection (a).''.
       (b) Table of Contents Amendment.--The table of contents in 
     section 1(b) of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 
     2015 (Public Law 114-22; 129 Stat. 227) is amended by 
     inserting after the item relating to section 606 the 
     following:

``Sec. 607. Understanding the physical and psychological effects of 
              severe forms of trafficking in persons.''.

     SEC. 23. COMBATING TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS.

       (a) Trafficking Victims Prevention Act of 2000 Programs.--
     Section 113 of the Trafficking Victims Prevention Act of 2000 
     (22 U.S.C. 7110) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (b)--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``2014 through 2017'' and 
     inserting ``2018 through 2022.''; and
       (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``2014 through 2017'' and 
     inserting ``2018 through 2022''; and
       (2) in subsection (i), by striking ``2014 through 2017'' 
     and inserting ``2018 through 2022''.
       (b) Reinstatement and Reauthorization of Grants To Combat 
     Child Sex Trafficking.--
       (1) Reinstatement of expired provision.--
       (A) In general.--Section 202 of the Trafficking Victims 
     Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 14044a) is 
     amended to read as such section read on March 6, 2017.
       (B) Conforming amendment.--Section 1241(b) of the Violence 
     Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (42 U.S.C. 14044a 
     note) is repealed.
       (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) 
     shall take effect as though enacted on March 6, 2017.
       (3) Reauthorization.--Section 202(i) of the Trafficking 
     Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005, as amended by 
     paragraph (1), is amended to read as follows:
       ``(i) Funding.--For each of the fiscal years 2018 through 
     2022, the Attorney General is authorized to allocate up to 
     $8,000,000 of the amounts appropriated pursuant to section 
     113(d)(1) of the Trafficking Victims Prevention Act of 2000 
     (22 U.S.C. 7110(d)(1)) to carry out this section.''.

     SEC. 24. GRANT ACCOUNTABILITY.

       (a) Definitions.--In this section--
       (1) the term ``covered agency'' means an agency authorized 
     to award grants under this Act;
       (2) the term ``covered grant'' means a grant authorized to 
     be awarded under this Act; and
       (3) the term ``covered official'' means the head of a 
     covered agency.
       (b) Accountability.--All covered grants shall be subject to 
     the following accountability provisions:
       (1) Audit requirement.--
       (A) Definition.--In this paragraph, the term ``unresolved 
     audit finding'' means a finding in the final audit report of 
     the Inspector General of a covered agency that the audited 
     grantee has utilized funds under a covered grant for an 
     unauthorized expenditure or otherwise unallowable cost that 
     is not closed or resolved within 12 months from the date when 
     the final audit report is issued.
       (B) Audits.--Beginning in the first fiscal year beginning 
     after the date of enactment of this Act, and in each fiscal 
     year thereafter, the Inspector General of a covered agency 
     shall conduct audits of recipients of covered grants to 
     prevent waste, fraud, and abuse of funds by grantees. The 
     Inspector General shall determine the appropriate number of 
     grantees to be audited each year.
       (C) Mandatory exclusion.--A recipient of funds under a 
     covered grant that is found to have an unresolved audit 
     finding shall not be eligible to receive funds under a 
     covered grant during the first 2 fiscal years beginning after 
     the end of the 12-month period described in subparagraph (A).
       (D) Priority.--In awarding covered grants, a covered 
     official shall give priority to eligible applicants that did 
     not have an unresolved audit finding during the 3 fiscal 
     years before submitting an application for the covered grant.
       (E) Reimbursement.--If an entity is awarded funds under a 
     covered grant during the 2-fiscal-year period during which 
     the entity is barred from receiving covered grants under 
     subparagraph (C), a covered official shall--
       (i) deposit an amount equal to the amount of the grant 
     funds that were improperly awarded to the grantee into the 
     General Fund of the Treasury; and
       (ii) seek to recoup the costs of the repayment to the fund 
     from the recipient of the covered grant that was erroneously 
     awarded grant funds.
       (2) Nonprofit organization requirements.--
       (A) Definition.--For purposes of this paragraph and each 
     covered grant program, the term ``nonprofit organization'' 
     means an organization that is described in section 501(c)(3) 
     of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and is exempt from 
     taxation under section 501(a) of such Code.
       (B) Prohibition.--A covered grant may not be awarded to a 
     nonprofit organization that holds money in offshore accounts 
     for the purpose of avoiding paying the tax described in 
     section 511(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
       (C) Disclosure.--Each nonprofit organization that is 
     awarded a covered grant and uses the procedures prescribed in 
     regulations to create a rebuttable presumption of 
     reasonableness for the compensation of its officers, 
     directors, trustees, and key employees, shall disclose to the 
     applicable covered official, in the application for the 
     covered grant, the process for determining such compensation, 
     including the independent persons involved in reviewing and 
     approving such compensation, the comparability data used, and 
     contemporaneous substantiation of the deliberation and 
     decision. Upon request, a covered official shall make the 
     information disclosed under this subparagraph available for 
     public inspection.
       (3) Conference expenditures.--
       (A) Limitation.--No amounts made available to a covered 
     agency to carry out a covered grant program may be used by a 
     covered official, or by any individual or entity awarded 
     discretionary funds through a cooperative agreement under a 
     covered grant program, to host or support any expenditure for 
     conferences that uses more than $20,000 in funds made 
     available by the covered agency, unless the covered official 
     provides prior written authorization that the funds may be 
     expended to host the conference.
       (B) Written approval.--Written approval under subparagraph 
     (A) shall include a written estimate of all costs associated 
     with the conference, including the cost of all food, 
     beverages, audio-visual equipment, honoraria for speakers, 
     and entertainment.
       (C) Report.--
       (i) Department of justice.--The Deputy Attorney General 
     shall submit an annual report to the appropriate committees 
     of Congress on all conference expenditures approved under 
     this paragraph.
       (ii) Department of health and human services.--The Deputy 
     Secretary of Health and Human Services shall submit to the 
     appropriate committees of Congress an annual report on all 
     conference expenditures approved under this paragraph.
       (iii) Department of homeland security.--The Deputy 
     Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit to the 
     appropriate committees of Congress an annual report on all 
     conference expenditures approved under this paragraph.
       (4) Annual certification.--Beginning in the first fiscal 
     year beginning after the date of enactment of this Act, each 
     covered official shall submit to the appropriate committees 
     of Congress an annual certification--
       (A) indicating whether--
       (i) all audits issued by the Office of the Inspector 
     General of the applicable covered agency under paragraph (1) 
     have been completed and reviewed by the appropriate official;
       (ii) all mandatory exclusions required under paragraph 
     (1)(C) have been issued; and
       (iii) all reimbursements required under paragraph (1)(E) 
     have been made; and
       (B) that includes a list of any recipients of a covered 
     grant excluded under paragraph (1) from the previous year.
       (c) Preventing Duplicative Grants.--

[[Page S5179]]

       (1) In general.--Before a covered official awards a covered 
     grant, the covered official shall compare potential awards 
     under the covered grant program with other covered grants 
     awarded to determine if duplicate grant awards are awarded 
     for the same purpose.
       (2) Report.--If a covered official awards duplicate covered 
     grants to the same applicant for the same purpose the covered 
     official shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
     Congress a report that includes--
       (A) a list of all duplicate covered grants awarded, 
     including the total dollar amount of any duplicate covered 
     grants awarded; and
       (B) the reason the covered official awarded the duplicate 
     covered grants.

     SEC. 25. HERO ACT IMPROVEMENTS.

       (a) In General.--Section 890A of the Homeland Security Act 
     of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 473) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``Homeland Security 
     Investigations,'' after ``Customs Enforcement,''; and
       (B) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
       ``(2) Purpose.--The Center shall provide investigative 
     assistance, training, and equipment to support domestic and 
     international investigations of cyber-related crimes by the 
     Department.'';
       (2) in subsection (b)--
       (A) in paragraph (2)(C), by inserting after ``personnel'' 
     the following: ``, which shall include participating in 
     training for Homeland Security Investigations personnel 
     conducted by Internet Crimes Against Children Task Forces''; 
     and
       (B) in paragraph (3)--
       (i) in subparagraph (B)--

       (I) in the matter preceding clause (i), by inserting ``in 
     child exploitation investigations'' after ``Enforcement''; 
     and
       (II) in clause (i), by inserting ``child'' before 
     ``victims'';

       (ii) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``child 
     exploitation'' after ``number of''; and
       (iii) in subparagraph (D), by inserting ``child 
     exploitation'' after ``number of''; and
       (3) in subsection (c)(2)--
       (A) in subparagraph (A), in the matter preceding clause 
     (i), by inserting ``and administer the Digital Forensics and 
     Document and Media Exploitation program'' after 
     ``forensics'';
       (B) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``and emerging 
     technologies'' after ``forensics''; and
       (C) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``and the National 
     Association to Protect Children'' and inserting ``, the 
     National Association to Protect Children, and other 
     governmental entities''.
       (b) HERO Child-Rescue Corps.--Section 890A of the Homeland 
     Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 473) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (g);
       (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following:
       ``(e) HERO Child-Rescue Corps.--
       ``(1) Establishment.--
       ``(A) In general.--There is established within the Center a 
     Human Exploitation Rescue Operation Child-Rescue Corps 
     Program (referred to in this section as the `HERO Child-
     Rescue Corps Program'), which shall be a Department-wide 
     program, in collaboration with the Department of Defense and 
     the National Association to Protect Children.
       ``(B) Private sector collaboration.--As part of the HERO 
     Child-Rescue Corps Program, the National Association to 
     Protect Children shall provide logistical support for program 
     participants.
       ``(2) Purpose.--The purpose of the HERO Child-Rescue Corps 
     Program shall be to recruit, train, equip, and employ members 
     of the Armed Forces on active duty and wounded, ill, and 
     injured veterans to combat and prevent child exploitation, 
     including in investigative, intelligence, analyst, 
     inspection, and forensic positions or any other positions 
     determined appropriate by the employing agency.
       ``(3) Functions.--The HERO Child-Rescue Program shall--
       ``(A) provide, recruit, train, and equip participants of 
     the Program in the areas of digital forensics, investigation, 
     analysis, intelligence, and victim identification, as 
     determined by the Center and the needs of the Department; and
       ``(B) ensure that during the internship period, 
     participants of the Program are assigned to investigate and 
     analyze--
       ``(i) child exploitation;
       ``(ii) child pornography;
       ``(iii) unidentified child victims;
       ``(iv) human trafficking;
       ``(v) traveling child sex offenders; and
       ``(vi) forced child labor, including the sexual 
     exploitation of minors.
       ``(f) Paid Internship and Hiring Program.--
       ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a paid 
     internship and hiring program for the purpose of placing 
     participants of the HERO Child-Rescue Corps Program (in this 
     subsection referred to as `participants') into paid 
     internship positions, for the subsequent appointment of the 
     participants to permanent positions, as described in the 
     guidelines promulgated under paragraph (3).
       ``(2) Internship positions.--Under the paid internship and 
     hiring program required to be established under paragraph 
     (1), the Secretary shall assign or detail participants to 
     positions within United States Immigration and Customs 
     Enforcement or any other Federal agency in accordance with 
     the guidelines promulgated under paragraph (3).
       ``(3) Placement.--
       ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall promulgate 
     guidelines for assigning or detailing participants to 
     positions within United States Immigration and Customs 
     Enforcement and other Federal agencies, which shall include 
     requirements for internship duties and agreements regarding 
     the subsequent appointment of the participants to permanent 
     positions.
       ``(B) Preference.--The Secretary shall give a preference to 
     Homeland Security Investigations in assignments or details 
     under the guidelines promulgated under subparagraph (A).
       ``(4) Term of internship.--An appointment to an internship 
     position under this subsection shall be for a term not to 
     exceed 12 months.
       ``(5) Rate and term of pay.--After completion of initial 
     group training and upon beginning work at an assigned office, 
     a participant appointed to an internship position under this 
     subsection who is not receiving monthly basic pay as a member 
     of the Armed Forces on active duty shall receive compensation 
     at a rate that is--
       ``(A) not less than the minimum rate of basic pay payable 
     for a position at level GS-5 of the General Schedule; and
       ``(B) not more than the maximum rate of basic pay payable 
     for a position at level GS-7 of the General Schedule.
       ``(6) Eligibility.--In establishing the paid internship and 
     hiring program required under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
     shall ensure that the eligibility requirements for 
     participation in the internship program are the same as the 
     eligibility requirements for participation in the HERO Child-
     Rescue Corps Program.
       ``(7) Hero corps hiring.--The Secretary shall establish 
     within Homeland Security Investigations positions, which 
     shall be in addition to any positions in existence on the 
     date of enactment of this subsection, for the hiring and 
     permanent employment of graduates of the paid internship 
     program required to be established under paragraph (1).''; 
     and
       (3) in subsection (g), as so redesignated--
       (A) by striking ``There are authorized'' and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(1) In general.--There are authorized''; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(2) Allocation.--Of the amount made available pursuant to 
     paragraph (1) in each of fiscal years 2018 through 2022, not 
     more than $10,000,000 shall be used to carry out subsection 
     (e) and not less than $2,000,000 shall be used to carry out 
     subsection (f).''.
       (c) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--Section 302 of the 
     HERO Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-22; 129 Stat. 255) is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking subsection (c); and
       (2) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (c).

                          ____________________



