

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 204 (Thursday, December 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 204 (Thursday, December 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S8045-S8046]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF COMMITTEES

  The following executive reports of nominations were submitted:

       By Mr. INHOFE for Mr. McCain for the Committee on Armed 
     Services.
       Air Force nomination of Maj. Gen. Anthony J. Cotton, to be 
     Lieutenant General.
       Air Force nomination of Col. Sharon A. Shaffer, to be 
     Brigadier General.
       Air Force nomination of Col. Robert J. Marks, to be 
     Brigadier General.
       Air Force nominations beginning with Col. Ronald G. Allen, 
     Jr. and ending with Col. Alice W. Trevino, which nominations 
     were received by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
     Record on November 14, 2017. (minus 1 nominee: Col. Jeffrey 
     H. Hurlbert)
       Army nomination of Maj. Gen. Christopher G. Cavoli, to be 
     Lieutenant General.
       Army nomination of Lt. Gen. Stephen J. Townsend, to be 
     General.
       Navy nomination of Rear Adm. Nancy A. Norton, to be Vice 
     Admiral.
       Navy nomination of Rear Adm. Richard A. Brown, to be Vice 
     Admiral.
       Air Force nomination of Col. Mitchel Neurock, to be 
     Brigadier General.
       Air Force nominations beginning with Brig. Gen. Hubert C. 
     Hegtvedt and ending with Brig. Gen. John B. Williams, which 
     nominations were received by the Senate and appeared in the 
     Congressional Record on December 1, 2017.

  Mr. INHOFE for Mr. McCain. Mr. President, for the Committee on Armed 
Services I report favorably the following nomination lists which were 
printed in the Records on the dates indicated, and ask unanimous 
consent, to save the expense of reprinting on the Executive Calendar 
that these nominations lie at the Secretary's desk for the information 
of Senators.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

       Air Force nomination of Arianne R. Morrison, to be Major.
       Air Force nomination of Richard A. Hanrahan, to be Major.
       Air Force nominations beginning with Aleck A. Brown and 
     ending with John D. Ritter, which nominations were received 
     by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on 
     December 1, 2017.
       Army nomination of Jennifer A. Mahoney, to be Major.
       Army nominations beginning with Yon T. Chung and ending 
     with Michael B. Payne, which nominations were received by the 
     Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on October 
     16, 2017.
       Army nominations beginning with Nathele J. Anderson and 
     ending with Brian R. Horton, which nominations were received 
     by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on 
     November 27, 2017.
       Army nominations beginning with Thomas W. Green and ending 
     with Kenneth M. Koop, which nominations were received by the 
     Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on November 
     27, 2017.
       Army nomination of Adam R. Liberman, to be Colonel.
       Army nomination of Michael E. Steelman, to be Colonel.
       Army nomination of Gerald D. Gangaram, to be Major.
       Army nomination of Brian R. Johnson, to be Major.
       Army nominations beginning with Scott T. Ayers and ending 
     with Tyesha L. Smith, which nominations were received by the 
     Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on November 
     27, 2017. (minus 1 nominee: Shawn D. Smith)
       Army nomination of Peter J. Armstrong, to be Colonel.
       Army nomination of Ali S. Zaza, to be Colonel.
       Army nomination of Phillip T. Buckler, to be Major.

[[Page S8046]]

       Army nomination of Vernice K. Favor-Williams, to be 
     Lieutenant Colonel.
       Army nomination of Heather M. Lee, to be Major.
       Navy nominations beginning with William L. Arnest and 
     ending with Karen J. Wood, which nominations were received by 
     the Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on 
     November 14, 2017.
       Navy nomination of Sharif H. Calfee, to be Captain.
       By Mr. GRASSLEY for the Committee on the Judiciary.
       Andrei Iancu, of California, to be Under Secretary of 
     Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the United 
     States Patent and Trademark Office.
       Duane A. Kees, of Arkansas, to be United States Attorney 
     for the Western District of Arkansas for the term of four 
     years.
       Stephen R. McAllister, of Kansas, to be United States 
     Attorney for the District of Kansas for the term of four 
     years.
       Ronald A. Parsons, Jr., of South Dakota, to be United 
     States Attorney for the District of South Dakota for the term 
     of four years.
       Ryan K. Patrick, of Texas, to be United States Attorney for 
     the Southern District of Texas for the term of four years.
       Michael B. Stuart, of West Virginia, to be United States 
     Attorney for the Southern District of West Virginia for the 
     term of four years.

  (Nominations without an asterisk were reported with the 
recommendation that they be confirmed.)

                          ____________________



