

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 158 (Tuesday, October 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 158 (Tuesday, October 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6267-S6268]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       HURRICANE RECOVERY EFFORTS

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, the President is on his way to Puerto 
Rico

[[Page S6268]]

to survey the hurricane damage personally and see how the Federal 
Government can continue to assist in the recovery efforts.
  Our thoughts remain with the hurricane victims as they continue to 
piece their lives and communities back together.
  During his visit, the President will have the opportunity to see the 
resilience of the Puerto Rican people. He can also witness the 
overwhelming support of their fellow Americans who have volunteered to 
help deliver relief. Much of that support has come from the military, 
including the men and women of Kentucky's own Air and Army National 
Guard, who have helped bring relief to Texas, Florida, the Virgin 
Islands, and Puerto Rico. Just last week, the 101st Airborne Combat 
Aviation Brigade deployed from Fort Campbell in my home State to help 
support relief efforts in Puerto Rico.
  President Trump will also have the chance to see the groundswell of 
generosity from our communities. Many donated money, food, and other 
essentials. Other brave Americans left their homes behind to go to the 
disaster sites to offer aid.
  I am especially proud to recognize some of the Kentuckians who have 
volunteered to join the relief efforts in the wake of these storms.
  The Kentucky Board of Emergency Medical Services selected eight fire 
departments from around my State to send to Florida to assist local 
operations after Hurricane Irma. Working 12-hour shifts, these 
firefighters responded to 911 calls in Tampa as residents began to move 
back into their homes.
  Throughout my State, churches and nonprofits sent volunteers to help 
however they could. One religious organization arranged more than 200 
volunteers to help flood victims in Texas and Florida. In all, they 
served over 78,000 meals, helped with laundry, and distributed many 
bottles of water.
  The Kentucky Humane Society stepped in to care for pets that were 
affected, and chapters of the American Red Cross from across the 
Commonwealth have mobilized to help where needed.
  The Kentucky Association of Electric Cooperatives sent dozens of 
linemen to Georgia to help restore power after Hurricane Irma. The 
joint effort from 17 of our State's electric cooperatives represents 
one of the largest mutual deployments in Kentucky's history.
  These Kentuckians, along with so many more, have generously given 
their time and labor to help their fellow Americans during this time of 
suffering. And they aren't alone. Compassionate men and women from 
around the country have joined the cause to help ease the pain of the 
victims.
  Along with my colleagues in the Senate, I am committed to continuing 
to do our part to support relief efforts with FEMA, the Department of 
Defense, and the rest of the administration. We will soon receive a 
supplemental funding request from the administration. When we do, I 
expect Congress will act quickly to ensure that the men and women 
providing critical support in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands 
have the resources they need. The Senate will continue to stand with 
those suffering from these devastating storms.

                          ____________________



