

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 143 (Wednesday, September 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 143 (Wednesday, September 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S5002]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO THOMAS CERRA

 Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, today I wish to honor Thomas 
Cerra, a noble veteran, an inspiration to his community, and a beloved 
member of my home State of West Virginia.
  Growing up in the northern panhandle of our beloved State, it is 
ingrained in each West Virginian that you have to work hard for what 
you want in life. Tom is indeed one of the hardest working men I know. 
Early on, he worked odd jobs during summers and after school and 
learned the value of a customer service mentality.
  Prior to joining the military, Tom worked on the B&O Railroad, drove 
a truck for a meat-packing plant and worked for the State road, while 
also attending night school for industrial drafting.
  In 1959, Tom joined the U.S. Army to serve his country and was 
honorably discharged in 1962. This experience only added to Tom's 
outstanding character, as he continued to develop his leadership skills 
and discipline. His service will never be forgotten.
  One of my favorite stories about Tom is that, once he was discharged 
from the Army, he returned to the YMCA where he had trained and 
instructed for many years. It was the year of West Virginia's 
centennial celebration, and the community hosted the Mister West 
Virginia Centennial Weightlifting Contest. Tom won the top award in the 
181-pound lifting class and the physique contest and was crowned 
``Mister West Virginia Centennial.'' Throughout all of his training, 
Tom never missed a day of work and still had time to get his 
weightlifting trophy engraved 2 weeks ahead of time. His sharp wit and 
sense of humor only add to his unforgettable character.
  Tom worked all over the country, but found an opportunity to come 
home to Wheeling when he applied for a job with then-Ohio Valley 
Builders Exchange. After a few short years with the company, he 
convinced the board of directors to change the name of the company to 
more accurately define what they did, and so it became the Ohio Valley 
Construction Employers Council, Inc. Tom then led the charge to form a 
labor management organization in order to promote the contractors and 
building tradesmen to their customers. The group adjusted the name to 
Project BEST: Building Efficiency by Striving Together and was 
incorporated in 1982.
  Project BEST is now comprised of hundreds of contractors and 
thousands of building trades craftsmen and apprentices in the Upper 
Ohio Valley region. This group is known for providing annual 
scholarships to area universities and colleges, promoting workplace 
safety and productivity, and provides a forum for the discussion of 
industry matters with all those involved with economic development 
endeavors.
  What remained the same throughout the years was Tom's dedication to 
his parents, Christine and Thomas, and his brother, Jimmy, who always 
provided him with unwavering support throughout his career. It is my 
hope that he enjoys his well-deserved retirement with his loved ones--
including his son, Bryan, his niece, Tina Marie, his grandchildren, 
Makayla, Angelina, and Wyatt, and his entire family.
  Tom is the epitome of the American Dream. He worked hard his entire 
life and always stroved to give back to his community after he served 
his country. It is my great privilege to recognize his accomplishments 
and to extend thanks, on behalf of all West Virginians, for his 
unwavering service.

                          ____________________



