

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6773]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 RECOGNIZING THE SAILORS AND MARINES WHO SACRIFICED THEIR LIVES WHILE 
        FIGHTING THE DEVASTATING 1967 FIRE ONBOARD USS FORRESTAL

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Armed 
Services Committee be discharged from further consideration of and the 
Senate now proceed to the consideration of S. Res. 234.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The clerk will report the resolution by title.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

       A resolution (S. Res. 234) recognizing the Sailors and 
     Marines who sacrificed their lives for ship and shipmates 
     while fighting the devastating 1967 fire onboard USS 
     Forrestal and, during the week of the 50th anniversary of the 
     tragic event, commemorating the efforts of those who 
     survived.

  There being no objection, the Senate proceeded to consider the 
resolution.
  Mr. McCONNELL. I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be agreed 
to, the Ernst amendment to the preamble be considered and agreed to, 
the preamble, as amended, be agreed to, and the motions to reconsider 
be considered made and laid upon the table.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The resolution (S. Res. 234) was agreed to.
  The amendment (No. 1578) was agreed to, as follows:

                    (Purpose: To amend the preamble)

       In paragraph (2) of the seventh whereas clause, strike 
     ``more than''.
       Strike the third whereas clause and insert the following:
       Whereas, on July 28, 1967, during an underway 
     replenishment, the crew of USS Forrestal onloaded 
     deteriorated bombs, which were more vulnerable to explosion 
     at high temperatures;
       Whereas, on July 29, 1967, the ordnance load for the strike 
     was changed at the request of the crew of USS Forrestal to 
     expend the inventory of the newly onloaded older bombs as 
     soon as possible;
  The preamble, as amended, was agreed to.
  The resolution, with its preamble, as amended, reads as follows:

                              S. Res. 234

       Whereas in 1967, the ongoing naval bombing campaign against 
     North Vietnam from Yankee Station in the Gulf of Tonkin was 
     the most intense and sustained air attack operation in the 
     history of the United States Navy;
       Whereas in June 1967, USS Forrestal and Carrier Air Wing 
     Seventeen departed Norfolk, Virginia, for duty in the Gulf of 
     Tonkin;
       Whereas, on July 28, 1967, during an underway 
     replenishment, the crew of USS Forrestal onloaded 
     deteriorated bombs, which were more vulnerable to explosion 
     at high temperatures;
       Whereas, on July 29, 1967, the ordnance load for the strike 
     was changed at the request of the crew of USS Forrestal to 
     expend the inventory of the newly onloaded older bombs as 
     soon as possible;
       Whereas despite safety precautions taken by the crew, a 
     devastating fire erupted on USS Forrestal after--
       (1) an electrical surge in a parked aircraft caused the 
     aircraft to fire a Zuni rocket that ruptured a fuel tank on 
     another aircraft; and
       (2) the burning fuel ignited a chain reaction of 9 bomb 
     explosions on the flight deck;

       Whereas the explosions destroyed multiple aircraft and tore 
     massive holes in the armored flight deck of USS Forrestal, 
     and burning fuel dripped into the living quarters of the crew 
     and the below-decks aircraft hangar;
       Whereas for 18 hours, Sailors and Marines on USS Forrestal, 
     assisted by others from accompanying destroyers, fought to 
     bring the fire under control while hospital corpsmen 
     navigated the mangled flight deck and tended to the wounded; 
     and
       Whereas the fire onboard USS Forrestal ultimately--
       (1) left 134 men dead and 161 men severely injured;
       (2) destroyed 21 aircraft; and
       (3) caused USS Forrestal to terminate its support to the 
     fight in Vietnam and return to Norfolk, Virginia, for 
     repairs: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) recognizes that--
       (A) if not for the heroic actions of the crew of USS 
     Forrestal, the consequences of the fire would have been far 
     more devastating to the Sailors and Marines onboard and the 
     aircraft carrier itself; and
       (B) the selfless sacrifices of those who came to the rescue 
     of fellow shipmates and USS Forrestal represent, and are 
     consistent with, the highest traditions of the United States 
     Navy;
       (2) commemorates the 50th anniversary of the USS Forrestal 
     fire; and
       (3) expresses gratitude to the Sailors and Marines who 
     served aboard USS Forrestal for their faithful service.

                          ____________________



