

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8390]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     VETERAN-OWNED SMALL BUSINESSES

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Madam Speaker, our veterans represent one of the 
most highly skilled workforces in American history--the product of 
rigorous training, an ironclad commitment to teamwork, and the 
remarkable ability to succeed where others might fail. It is no wonder 
that veterans are 45 percent more likely to be self-employed than 
nonveterans. In total, veteran-owned businesses make up nearly 10 
percent of all businesses in the United States and account for more 
than $1 trillion in business receipts every year.
  One of those businesses is Navmar Applied Sciences Corporation, based 
in Warrington. Owned by Air Force veteran Tom Fenerty, Navmar engineers 
technology to make sure that our military has the best tools possible 
to complete any mission. Tom has also committed to employing veterans 
in the community. I am privileged to represent Tom and others like him 
in Congress.
  In honor of their service--both in uniform and as part of our 
economy--I am proud to recognize the importance of veteran-owned small 
businesses in our community by introducing and supporting H. Res. 588, 
which recognizes National Veterans Small Business Week this week, from 
October 30 to November 3.
  Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues--and all Americans--to join me in 
supporting the veteran-owned small businesses in our community.


                       National Obesity Care Week

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize National 
Obesity Care Week and the over 90 million adult Americans living with 
obesity. National Obesity Care Week is recognized during the first week 
of November, when individuals and organizations from across the country 
raise awareness about the serious chronic disease of obesity.
  Leading medical organizations, including the American Medical 
Association, the Obesity Society, the American Academy of Family 
Physicians, the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists, and 
the World Obesity Federation, all recognize obesity as a disease and 
the belief that it should be treated as such.
  National Obesity Care Week aims to advance an evidence-based 
understanding of obesity and widespread access to respectful, 
comprehensive, and appropriate care. Obesity is a complex disease, 
linked to over 50 disorders, including type 2 diabetes, hypertension, 
and cardiovascular disease. Over $1.4 trillion is spent in the U.S. on 
direct and indirect costs for health-related conditions related to 
obesity each year.

  This must change, Madam Speaker. It is time for action, and I commit 
to being part of the solution to improve care for obesity. I urge my 
fellow Members to join me in recognizing obesity as a serious, chronic 
disease and working towards improving access to evidence-based tools 
for chronic weight management.

                          ____________________



