

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6994]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to executive session for the en bloc consideration of the 
following nominations: Executive Calendar Nos. 409, 410, 411, 414, 415, 
416, 417, 418, 419, 420, 422, 423, 424, 425, 426, 427, 429, and 431.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The clerk will report the nominations en bloc.
  The bill clerk read the nominations of Peter Henry Barlerin, of 
Colorado, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of 
Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the 
United States of America to the Republic of Cameroon; Kathleen M. 
Fitzpatrick, of the District of Columbia, a Career Member of the Senior 
Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador 
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to 
the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste; Michael James Dodman, of New 
York, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-
Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the 
United States of America to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania; Michele 
Jeanne Sison, of Maryland, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign 
Service, Class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and 
Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of 
Haiti; Jamie McCourt, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and 
Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the French Republic, 
and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as 
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of 
America to the Principality of Monaco; Richard Duke Buchan III, of 
Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the 
United States of America to the Kingdom of Spain, and to serve 
concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador 
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to 
Andorra; Larry Edward Andre, Jr., of Texas, a Career Member of the 
Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador 
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to 
the Republic of Djibouti; Thomas L. Carter, of South Carolina, for the 
rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Representative of 
the United States of America on the Council of the International Civil 
Aviation Organization; Nina Maria Fite, of Pennsylvania, a Career 
Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to 
be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of 
America to the Republic of Angola; Daniel L. Foote, of New York, a 
Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-
Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the 
United States of America to the Republic of Zambia; Kenneth Ian Juster, 
of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the 
United States of America to the Republic of India; W. Robert Kohorst, 
of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of 
the United States of America to the Republic of Croatia; Edward T. 
McMullen, Jr., of South Carolina, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and 
Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Swiss 
Confederation, and to serve concurrently and without additional 
compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the 
United States of America to the Principality of Liechtenstein; David 
Dale Reimer, of Ohio, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, 
Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary 
of the United States of America to the Republic of Mauritius, and to 
serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador 
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to 
the Republic of Seychelles; Eric P. Whitaker, of Illinois, a Career 
Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be 
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of 
America to the Republic of Niger; Carla Sands, of California, to be 
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of 
America to the Kingdom of Denmark; Michael T. Evanoff, of Arkansas, to 
be an Assistant Secretary of State (Diplomatic Security); and Manisha 
Singh, of Florida, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Economic and 
Business Affairs).
  Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to consider the nominations en bloc.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
vote on the nominations en bloc with no intervening action or debate; 
that if confirmed, the motions to reconsider be considered made and 
laid upon the table en bloc; that the President be immediately notified 
of the Senate's action; that no further motions be in order; and that 
any statements relating to the nominations be printed in the Record.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Barlerin, 
Fitzpatrick, Dodman, Sison, McCourt, Buchan, Andre, Carter, Fite, 
Foote, Juster, Kohorst, McMullen, Reimer, Whitaker, Sands, Evanoff, and 
Singh nominations en bloc?
  The nominations were confirmed en bloc.

                          ____________________



