

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 194 (Wednesday, November 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 194 (Wednesday, November 29, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9515-H9516]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself and Mr. Blum):
       H.R. 4476. A bill to modernize the Public Utility 
     Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CULBERSON (for himself, Mr. Cuellar, Ms. Esty of 
             Connecticut, Mr. Aguilar, Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Speier, Mr. Richmond, Mr. McCaul, 
             Mrs. Comstock, and Ms. Titus):
       H.R. 4477. A bill to enforce current law regarding the 
     National Instant Criminal Background Check System; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.

[[Page H9516]]

  

           By Mr. NUNES:
       H.R. 4478. A bill to amend the Foreign Intelligence 
     Surveillance Act of 1978 to improve foreign intelligence 
     collection and the safeguards, accountability, and oversight 
     of acquisitions of foreign intelligence, to extend title VII 
     of such Act, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees on Intelligence 
     (Permanent Select), Oversight and Government Reform, and 
     Homeland Security, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. HUNTER (for himself, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. 
             Peters, and Mr. Carson of Indiana):
       H.R. 4479. A bill to establish a new higher education data 
     system to allow for more accurate, complete, and secure data 
     on student retention, graduation, and earnings outcomes, at 
     all levels of postsecondary enrollment, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, 
     and in addition to the Committees on Armed Services, 
     Veterans' Affairs, and Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KIND (for himself, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Foster, 
             Mr. Meehan, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
             Himes, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Soto, and Mr. Ferguson):
       H.R. 4480. A bill to provide for a study by the National 
     Academies on workplace challenges; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. LANCE:
       H.R. 4481. A bill to amend the Congressional Accountability 
     Act of 1995 to prohibit the use of public funds to make 
     payments of awards and settlements in connection with 
     violations of such Act which are committed by employing 
     offices of the House of Representatives and Senate, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. MEADOWS (for himself and Mr. Renacci):
       H.R. 4482. A bill to deter opioid abuse and addiction, to 
     establish additional registration requirements for 
     prescribers of opioids, to encourage the development of 
     abuse-deterrent formulations, to require a study and report 
     on policy changes that may have contributed to the opioid 
     epidemic, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia (for himself, Mr. 
             Walker, and Mr. Davidson):
       H.R. 4483. A bill to abolish the Federal Insurance Office 
     of the Department of the Treasury, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. STEWART (for himself and Ms. Bonamici):
       H.R. 4484. A bill to amend the Congressional Accountability 
     Act of 1995 to prohibit the imposition of a nondisclosure 
     agreement as a condition of the payment of any award or 
     settlement in connection with a violation of such Act; to the 
     Committee on House Administration.
           By Mrs. TORRES (for herself, Mr. Cole, Mrs. Radewagen, 
             Ms. Hanabusa, Ms. Moore, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Grijalva, 
             and Mr. Khanna):
       H.R. 4485. A bill to direct the Attorney General to review, 
     revise, and develop law enforcement and justice protocols 
     appropriate to address missing and murdered Indians, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Natural Resources, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ:
       H.R. 4486. A bill to amend section 1908 of title 41, United 
     States Code, to exempt certain contracts from the periodic 
     inflation adjustments to an acquisition-related dollar 
     threshold; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. WELCH (for himself, Ms. Schakowsky, and Ms. 
             Castor of Florida):
       H.R. 4487. A bill to authorize the collection of 
     supplemental payments to increase congressional investments 
     in medical research, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. CHENEY:
       H. Res. 634. A resolution electing Members to certain 
     standing committees of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to. considered and agreed to.

                          ____________________



