

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9630]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            RETIREMENT OF DEAN OF THE UNITED STATES CONGRESS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, a few minutes ago, in Detroit, the dean 
of the United States Congress offered his retirement immediately. He 
has asked me, a member of the Judiciary Committee, to offer his words 
to his colleagues and to put his statement in the Record that indicates 
that he has notified Speaker Ryan, Leader Pelosi, and Governor Snyder 
of his retirement from the United States House of Representatives.
  It is important to note, as I begin, that there is no difference or 
no undermining of the rights of women and the abhorrence of sexual 
harassment and sexual assault. But this is a statement that I believe 
should be read on behalf of the dean of the United States Congress, Mr. 
John Conyers.

                              {time}  1100

  As a Member of Congress, I have known Mr. Conyers to not shy away 
from a legislative challenge. In addition to being the first Member to 
introduce the Martin Luther King holiday bill, he was the first to hold 
hearings on police misconduct, the first to examine the problem of 
solitary confinement, the first to offer racial profiling legislation, 
the first to introduce legislation protecting against 
disenfranchisement of ex-felons, and the first to pursue legislation 
protecting Black farmers from discrimination, among many other civil 
rights measures.
  In 2007, Representative Conyers stood up for the prerogatives of the 
House of Representatives and successfully brought a suit against the 
former President Bush White House for failing to comply with subpoenas 
relating to a U.S. attorney's investigation.
  He has been the chairman of the Judiciary Committee; and he will 
continue to, in his life, as he has indicated, stand for what is right.
  It is now my privilege to read this statement from Mr. John Conyers. 
I reiterate that he says that he notified Speaker Ryan, Leader Pelosi, 
and Governor Snyder of his retirement from the United States House of 
Representatives.
  It was his honor--these are his words--and his privilege to serve the 
constituents of Detroit, Michigan, as their United States Congressman 
in the 13th and 14th Congressional District for 53 years.
  This is his statement again:

       I came to Congress in 1964. Since then, I have devoted my 
     entire career to improving the lives of my constituents in 
     Detroit and on the behalf of justice everywhere. These years 
     witnessed a profound evolution in civil rights, led by 
     millions in the streets who marched for justice and people of 
     conscience in the Congress--both Democrats and Republicans--
     who heard them and enacted the Civil Rights Act, the Voting 
     Rights Act, and other landmark reforms. I have been in the 
     forefront of the civil rights movement. I have been a 
     champion of justice for the oppressed and the 
     disenfranchised. I never wavered in my commitment to justice 
     and democracy.
       I am proud to have been part of that rich history. I have 
     been privileged to be a founder of the Congressional Black 
     Caucus and to represent the United States Congress by being 
     dean.
       I passed, as indicated, the law dealing with the Martin 
     Luther King, Jr., Holiday Act, the Violence Against Women 
     Act, the Hate Crimes Act, the USA Freedom Act, and the 
     extension of the Voting Rights Act. I have led the fight 
     against mandatory minimum sentences, hoping to reverse the 
     devastating incarceration rates for African Americans and 
     poor people. I have tried to pass a universal healthcare law, 
     H.R. 676. Every Congress since 1989, I have introduced H.R. 
     40 to study reparations for slavery, and I deeply appreciate 
     those handful of courageous colleagues who have joined me.
       For Detroiters, I am proud of what we have been able to 
     accomplish to bring hundreds of millions of dollars in 
     critical grants and Federal funding for southeast Michigan to 
     revitalize our great city, attract rich talent, and return to 
     us prosperity.
       I recognize that in this present environment, due process 
     will not be afforded to me. I was taught by a great woman, my 
     mother, to honor women. The first employee I ever hired was 
     Mrs. Rosa Parks, who worked in my office for 22 years. It has 
     been my great honor to work alongside some of the most 
     talented and honorable staff on Capitol Hill and in Detroit.
       I have stated my position on these allegations. I have 
     worked with both women and men.
       Given the totality of the circumstance of not being 
     afforded the right of due process in conjunction with my 
     current health condition, and to preserve my legacy and good 
     name, I am retiring.
       I hope that my retirement will be viewed in the larger 
     perspective of my record of service, and as I enter a new 
     chapter, I pledge to continue my commitment to a progressive 
     vision and a better future for this country that I love. I 
     owe that to the legacy of my father, John Conyers, Sr., who 
     integrated labor unions in this country; to my brother 
     Nathan, who integrated business, and he is my ``main man;'' 
     and to my loving wife, Monica; and to my son, John III, who I 
     believe offers hope to this generation of leadership, and who 
     is committed to being an advocate of fairness and justice for 
     all; and to Carl Edward, who never leaves my side.
       I cannot allow the great work of this body to be distracted 
     from the important work, or the goals of the Democratic Party 
     to be distracted. It has been an honor and a privilege of my 
     life to represent the people of Michigan in the House of 
     Representatives, but that responsibility will now fall to my 
     colleagues and my successor. They have my deepest support and 
     prayers. Jobs, justice, and peace.

                          ____________________



