

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 204 (Thursday, December 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 204 (Thursday, December 14, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9939-H9940]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. TIPTON:
       H.R. 4642. A bill to amend the Veterans Access, Choice, and 
     Accountability Act of 2014 to include in the Veterans Choice 
     Program all veterans enrolled in the patient enrollment 
     system of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO:
       H.R. 4643. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, 
     with respect to the duties of the Administrator of the 
     Federal Aviation Administration, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. GIANFORTE:
       H.R. 4644. A bill to withdraw certain National Forest 
     System land in the Emigrant Crevice area located in the 
     Custer Gallatin National Forest, Park County, Montana, from 
     the mining and mineral leasing laws of the United States, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. GIANFORTE:
       H.R. 4645. A bill to amend the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act 
     to designate certain segments of East Rosebud Creek in Carbon 
     County, Montana, as components of the Wild and Scenic Rivers 
     System; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. PALMER (for himself, Mr. Byrne, Mrs. Roby, Mr. 
             Rogers of Alabama, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. 
             Aderholt, and Ms. Sewell of Alabama):
       H.R. 4646. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 1900 Corporate Drive in 
     Birmingham, Alabama, as the ``Lance Corporal Thomas E. 
     Rivers, Jr. Post Office Building''; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. FORTENBERRY (for himself and Mrs. Dingell):
       H.R. 4647. A bill to amend the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife 
     Restoration Act to make supplemental funds available for 
     management of fish and wildlife species of greatest 
     conservation need as determined by State fish and wildlife 
     agencies, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. EMMER (for himself and Mr. Hultgren):
       H.R. 4648. A bill to delay the effective date of certain 
     regulations relating to home mortgage disclosures, to suspend 
     certain data sharing requirements, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania (for himself, 
             Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Takano):
       H.R. 4649. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide tax credits for energy storage technologies, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. AGUILAR (for himself, Ms. Titus, and Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman):
       H.R. 4650. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to develop and make available guidance relating to 
     domestic preparedness for and collective response to 
     terrorism regarding active shooter and mass casualty incident 
     response assistance, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. BIGGS (for himself, Mr. Posey, Mr. Harris, and 
             Mr. Schweikert):
       H.R. 4651. A bill to provide that the final rule of the 
     Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection titled ``Home 
     Mortgage Disclosure (Regulation C)'' shall have no force or 
     effect; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself, Mr. Cooper, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, Mr.

[[Page H9940]]

             Cohen, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mrs. Black, Mr. 
             Fleischmann, and Mr. Kustoff of Tennessee):
       H.R. 4652. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to make permanent the Tennessee disproportionate share 
     hospital (DSH) allotment under the Medicaid program; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT:
       H.R. 4653. A bill to provide for a prescription drug take-
     back program for members of the Armed Forces and veterans, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on Armed 
     Services, the Judiciary, and Veterans' Affairs, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CRAMER (for himself, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Emmer, 
             Mrs. Noem, and Mr. Peterson):
       H.R. 4654. A bill to amend the Agricultural Act of 2014 to 
     require the Secretary of Agriculture to use certain data in 
     determining an actual or benchmark county yield, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. DONOVAN (for himself, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. 
             Marino, Mr. Rutherford, Ms. Barragan, Ms. Tenney, Mr. 
             Bacon, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Stewart, Ms. Kuster 
             of New Hampshire, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Gowdy, 
             and Mr. Bishop of Utah):
       H.R. 4655. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     prohibit the importation or transportation of child sex 
     dolls, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER (for herself and Mr. Kilmer):
       H.R. 4656. A bill to extend a prohibition relating to 
     permits for discharges incidental to the normal operation of 
     certain vessels; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. KING of New York (for himself and Mr. Meeks):
       H.R. 4657. A bill to amend title 11 of the United States 
     Code, to allow full subrogation, including subrogation to the 
     priority rights of the United States, of claims for the 
     payment of customs duties; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI (for himself and Mr. Takano):
       H.R. 4658. A bill to provide consumer protections for 
     students; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, 
     and in addition to the Committees on Armed Services, and 
     Veterans' Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. LUETKEMEYER (for himself, Mr. Lucas, Mr. Vela, 
             Mr. O'Halleran, and Mr. David Scott of Georgia):
       H.R. 4659. A bill to require the appropriate Federal 
     banking agencies to recognize the exposure-reducing nature of 
     client margin for cleared derivatives; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mrs. WAGNER (for herself, Ms. Foxx, Mr. Conaway, Mr. 
             Brady of Texas, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Babin, Mr. 
             Wilson of South Carolina, Mr. Yoder, Mr. Rokita, Mr. 
             Luetkemeyer, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, Mr. Jody B. 
             Hice of Georgia, Mrs. Black, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. 
             Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Roskam, Mr. Johnson of 
             Ohio, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Mrs. 
             Blackburn, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Mullin, Mr. 
             Byrne, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. Norman, Mr. Messer, Mr. 
             Gosar, and Mrs. Hartzler):
       H.R. 4660. A bill to prohibit discrimination against the 
     unborn on the basis of sex, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



