

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 172 (Wednesday, October 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 172 (Wednesday, October 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8171-H8178]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  IRAN BALLISTIC MISSILES AND INTERNATIONAL SANCTIONS ENFORCEMENT ACT

  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and 
pass the bill (H.R. 1698) to expand sanctions against Iran with respect 
to the ballistic missile program of Iran, and for other purposes, as 
amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 1698

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Iran Ballistic Missiles and 
     International Sanctions Enforcement Act''.

     SEC. 2. SANCTIONS RELATING TO EFFORTS BY THE GOVERNMENT OF 
                   IRAN WITH RESPECT TO BALLISTIC MISSILE-RELATED 
                   GOODS, SERVICES, AND TECHNOLOGIES.

       (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
       (1) United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 
     (2015)--
       (A) calls upon Iran ``not to undertake any activity related 
     to ballistic missiles designed to be capable of delivering 
     nuclear weapons, including launches using such ballistic 
     missile technology''; and
       (B) requires member states to ``take the necessary measures 
     to prevent, except as decided otherwise by the UN Security 
     Council in advance on a case-by-case basis, the supply, sale, 
     or transfer of arms or related materiel from Iran''.
       (2) The United States maintains bilateral sanctions against 
     Iran for its efforts to manufacture, acquire, possess, 
     develop, transport, transfer or use ballistic missiles or 
     ballistic missile launch technology, and its acquisition of 
     destabilizing types and amounts of conventional weapons.
       (3) According to the 2016 Worldwide Threat Assessment, the 
     United States intelligence community judges ``that Tehran 
     would choose ballistic missiles as its preferred method of 
     delivering nuclear weapons, if it builds them. Iran's 
     ballistic missiles are inherently capable of delivering 
     [weapons of mass destruction], and Tehran already has the 
     largest inventory of ballistic missiles in the Middle East. 
     Iran's progress on space launch vehicles--along with its 
     desire to deter the United States and its allies--provides 
     Tehran with the means and motivation to develop longer-range 
     missiles, including ICBMs.''.
       (4) Since the passage of United Nations Security Council 
     2231, Iran has conducted numerous tests of ballistic missiles 
     designed to be capable of delivering nuclear weapons, and has 
     acquired destabilizing types of conventional weapons.
       (5) Iran has pursued the ability to indigenously produce 
     ballistic missile and cruise missile goods, services, and 
     technologies.
       (b) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United 
     States to prevent Iran from undertaking any activity related 
     to ballistic missiles designed to be capable of delivering 
     nuclear weapons, including launches using such ballistic 
     missile technology.
       (c) Report on Supply Chain of Iran's Ballistic Missile 
     Program.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a report that contains 
     the following:
       (A) An analysis of the foreign supply chain and domestic 
     supply chain in Iran that directly or indirectly 
     significantly facilitates, supports, or otherwise aids the 
     Government of Iran's ballistic missile program.
       (B) A description of the geographic distribution of the 
     foreign and domestic supply chain described in subparagraph 
     (A).
       (C) An assessment of the Government of Iran's ability to 
     indigenously manufacture or otherwise produce the goods, 
     services, or technology necessary to support its ballistic 
     missile program.
       (D) An identification of foreign persons that have, based 
     on credible information, directly or indirectly facilitated 
     or supported the development of the Government of Iran's 
     ballistic missile program, including the foreign and domestic 
     supply chain described in subparagraph (A).
       (E) A determination with respect to each foreign person 
     identified under subparagraph (D) as to whether the foreign 
     person meets the criteria for designation under--
       (i) paragraph (1) of section 5(b) of the Iran Sanctions Act 
     of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note), as amended 
     by this section;
       (ii) section 104 of the Countering America's Adversaries 
     Through Sanctions Act (Public Law 115-44); or
       (iii) Executive Order 13382 (2005).

[[Page H8172]]

       (2) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified 
     annex.
       (d) Sanctionable Activities With Respect to Weapons of Mass 
     Destruction.--Paragraph (1) of section 5(b) of the Iran 
     Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 
     note) is amended--
       (1) in the heading, by striking ``Exports, transfers, and 
     transshipments'' and inserting ``Weapons of mass destruction; 
     ballistic missiles; conventional weapons'';
       (2) by striking ``Except as'' and inserting the following:
       ``(A) Weapons of mass destruction.--Except as'';
       (3) by striking ``(A) on or after the date of the enactment 
     of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 
     2012'' and inserting the following:
       ``(i)(I) on or after the date of the enactment of the Iran 
     Ballistic Missiles and International Sanctions Enforcement 
     Act'';
       (4) by striking ``(B) knew'' and inserting the following:
       ``(II) knew'';
       (5) by striking ``(i) the export'' and inserting the 
     following:

       ``(aa) the export'';

       (6) by striking ``would likely'' and inserting ``may'';
       (7) by striking ``(ii) the export'' and inserting the 
     following:

       ``(bb) the export'';

       (8) by striking ``(I) acquire'' and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(AA) acquire'';
       (9) by striking ``; or'' at the end of subparagraph 
     (A)(ii)(II)(bb)(AA) (as so redesignated);
       (10) by inserting after subparagraph (A)(ii)(II)(bb)(AA) 
     (as so redesignated) the following:
       ``(BB) acquire or develop ballistic missiles or ballistic 
     missile launch technologies; or'';
       (11) by striking ``(II) acquire'' and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(CC) acquire'';
       (12) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph 
     (A)(ii)(II)(bb)(CC) (as so redesignated) and inserting ``; 
     or''; and
       (13) by adding at the end of subparagraph (A) the 
     following:
       ``(ii) knowingly exports or transfers, or permits or 
     otherwise facilitates the transshipment or re-export of, 
     goods, services, technology, or other items to Iran that 
     materially supports Iran's efforts to--

       ``(I) acquire or develop ballistic missiles or ballistic 
     missile launch technologies; or
       ``(II) acquire or develop destabilizing numbers and types 
     of advanced conventional weapons (as such term is defined in 
     paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 1608 of the Iran-Iraq Arms 
     Non-Proliferation Act of 1992).''.

       (e) Sanctionable Activities With Respect to Ballistic 
     Missiles.--Paragraph (1) of section 5(b) of the Iran 
     Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 
     note), as amended by subsection (e), is further amended by 
     adding at the end the following:
       ``(B) Additional ballistic missile-related goods, services, 
     and technology.--
       ``(i) Additional authority.--The President shall impose the 
     sanctions described in paragraph (8), (10), or (12) of 
     section 6(a), as the case may be, with respect to--

       ``(I) an agency or instrumentality of the Government of 
     Iran if the President determines that the agency or 
     instrumentality, on or after the date of the enactment of 
     this subparagraph, knowingly seeks to develop, procure, or 
     acquire goods, services, or technology that materially 
     supports efforts by the Government of Iran with respect to 
     ballistic missile-related goods, services, and technologies 
     as described in clause (iii);
       ``(II) a foreign person or an agency or instrumentality of 
     a foreign state if the President determines that the person 
     or agency or instrumentality knowingly, on or after the date 
     of the enactment of this paragraph, provides significant 
     material support to the Government of Iran that supports 
     efforts by the Government of Iran with respect to ballistic 
     missile-related goods, services, and technologies as 
     described in clause (iii); and
       ``(III) a foreign person that the President determines 
     knowingly engages in a significant transaction or 
     transactions with, or provides significant financial services 
     for, a foreign person or an agency or instrumentality of a 
     foreign state described in subclause (I) or (II) with respect 
     to ballistic missile-related goods, services, and 
     technologies as described in clause (iii).

       ``(ii) Determination and report on ballistic missile 
     tests.--

       ``(I) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date on 
     which the President determines that the Government of Iran 
     has conducted a test of a ballistic missile that fails to 
     comply with, violates, or is in defiance of United Nations 
     Security Council Resolution 2231 (2015), the President shall 
     submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
     that identifies each senior official of the Government of 
     Iran that the President determines is responsible for 
     ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing the missile 
     test.
       ``(II) Matters to be included.--The report required by 
     subclause (I) should include available information on the 
     ballistic missile or the generic class of ballistic missile 
     or space rocket that was launched; the trajectory, duration, 
     range, and altitude of the missile flight; the duration, 
     range, and altitude of the flight of each stage of the 
     missile; the location of the launch point and impact point; 
     the payload; and other technical information that is 
     available.
       ``(III) Form.--The report required by subclause (I) shall 
     be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a 
     classified annex.

       ``(iii) Efforts by the government of iran with respect to 
     ballistic missile-related goods, services, and technologies 
     described.--

       ``(I) In general.--For purposes of subclauses (I), (II), 
     and (III) of clause (i), and except as provided in subclause 
     (II) of this clause, efforts by the Government of Iran with 
     respect to ballistic missile-related goods, services, and 
     technologies described in this subsection are efforts by the 
     Government of Iran to manufacture, acquire, possess, develop, 
     transport, transfer, test or use ballistic missiles or 
     associated goods, services, or technology by the Government 
     of Iran, including efforts by the Government of Iran to 
     manufacture, acquire, possess, develop, transport, transfer, 
     purchase--

       ``(aa) goods, services, or technology listed on the Missile 
     Technology Control Regime Equipment and Technology Annex of 
     October 8, 2015, and subsequent revisions that have been 
     acquired outside of the Procurement Working Group or not 
     otherwise approved by the United Nations Security Council; or
       ``(bb) goods, services, or technology not described in the 
     matter preceding item (aa) or item (aa) but which 
     nevertheless the President determines would be, if such 
     goods, services, or technology were United States goods, 
     services, or technology, prohibited for export to Iran 
     because of their potential to materially support the 
     development of ballistic missile systems or ballistic missile 
     launch technologies.

       ``(II) Exception.--Subclause (I) shall not apply with 
     respect to efforts by the Government of Iran with respect to 
     ballistic missile-related goods, services, and technologies 
     that have been approved under paragraph 4 of Annex B of 
     United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 (2015).

       ``(iv) Procurement working group defined.--In clause 
     (iii)(I), the term `procurement working group' means the 
     Procurement Working Group of the Joint Commission established 
     under Annex IV of the applicable provisions in Annex A of 
     United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 (2015).
       ``(v) Additional report on ballistic missile tests.--

       ``(I) In general.--Not later than January 31 of each 
     calendar year, the President should submit to the Committee 
     on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the 
     Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report that 
     specifies the number and generic class of ballistic missiles 
     and space rockets launched by Iran during the preceding 
     calendar year and the dates of each missile launch and the 
     type of missile launched on each relevant date. The report 
     should include definitions used for classifying the generic 
     classes of missiles.
       ``(II) Form.--The report required by subclause (I) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified 
     annex.''.

       (f) Sanctionable Activities With Respect to Conventional 
     Weapons.--Paragraph (1) of section 5(b) of the Iran Sanctions 
     Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note), as 
     amended by subsections (e) and (f), is further amended by 
     adding at the end the following:
       ``(C) Conventional weapons.--The President shall impose the 
     sanctions described in paragraph (8) or (12) of section 6(a), 
     as the case may be, with respect to a foreign person or an 
     agency or instrumentality of a foreign state if the President 
     determines that the person or agency or instrumentality 
     knowingly, on or after the date of the enactment of this 
     paragraph, imports, exports, or re-exports to, into, or from 
     Iran, whether directly or indirectly, any significant arms or 
     related materiel prohibited under paragraph (5) or (6) of 
     Annex B of United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 
     (2015).''.
       (g) Exception and Definitions.--Paragraph (1) of section 
     5(b) of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 
     50 U.S.C. 1701 note), as amended by subsections (e), (f), and 
     (g), is further amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(D) Exception.--The President may not impose sanctions 
     under subparagraph (B) or (C) with respect to a foreign 
     person or a United States person if the President determines 
     that the person has exercised due diligence in establishing 
     and enforcing official policies, procedures, and controls to 
     ensure that the person does not sell, supply, or transfer to 
     or from Iran materials the sale, supply, or transfer of which 
     would subject a person to the imposition of sanctions under 
     subparagraph (B) or (C), as the case may be, or conduct or 
     facilitate a financial transaction for such a sale, supply, 
     or transfer.
       ``(E) Definitions.--In subparagraphs (B) and (C) of this 
     paragraph:
       ``(i) Agency or instrumentality.--The term `agency or 
     instrumentality' has the meaning given such term in section 
     1603(b) of title 28, United States Code.
       ``(ii) Foreign state.--The term `foreign state' has the 
     meaning given such term in section 1603(a) of title 28, 
     United States Code.
       ``(iii) Government of iran.--The term `Government of Iran' 
     has the meaning given such term in section 560.304 of title 
     31, Code of Federal Regulations, as such section was in 
     effect on January 1, 2016.
       ``(iv) Significant transaction or transactions; significant 
     financial services.--The terms `significant transaction or 
     transactions' and `significant financial services'

[[Page H8173]]

     shall be determined in accordance with section 561.404 of 
     title 31, Code of Federal Regulations, as such section 
     561.404 was in effect on January 1, 2016.''.
       (h) Sanctions Described.--Section 6(a) of the Iran 
     Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 
     note) is amended--
       (1) by striking paragraph (10) and inserting the following:
       ``(10) Inadmissibility to united states.--
       ``(A) In general.--The President may direct the Secretary 
     of State to deny a visa to, and the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to exclude from the United States and, if the 
     individual has been issued a visa or other documentation, 
     revoke, in accordance with the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) the visa or other documentation 
     of any alien that--
       ``(i) is designated pursuant to subparagraph (B) or (C) of 
     section 5(b)(1); or
       ``(ii) the President determines is a corporate officer or 
     principal of, or a shareholder with a controlling interest 
     in, a sanctioned person.
       ``(B) Exception to comply with united nations headquarters 
     agreement.--Sanctions under subparagraph (A) shall not apply 
     to an alien if admitting the alien into the United States is 
     necessary to permit the United States to comply with the 
     Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, 
     signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force 
     November 21, 1947, between the United Nations and the United 
     States, or other applicable international obligations.'';
       (2) by redesignating paragraph (12) as paragraph (13); and
       (3) by inserting after paragraph (11) the following:
       ``(12) Export sanction.--In the case of an agency or 
     instrumentality of a foreign state, no item on the United 
     States Munitions List or Commerce Munitions List may be 
     exported to that foreign state for a period of two years.''.
       (i) Rule of Construction.--The sanctions that are required 
     to be imposed under this section and the amendments made by 
     this section are in addition to other similar or related 
     sanctions that are required to be imposed under any other 
     provision of law.
       (j) Implementation.--The President may exercise all 
     authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the 
     International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 
     and 1704) to carry out any amendments made by this section.
       (k) Implementation Plan.--Not later than 60 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall 
     transmit to the appropriate congressional committees a plan 
     to implement--
       (1) paragraph (1) of section 5(b) of the Iran Sanctions Act 
     of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note), as amended 
     by this section; and
       (2) section 104 of the Countering America's Adversaries 
     Through Sanctions Act (Public Law 115-44).
       (l) Effective Date.--
       (1) In general.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall--
       (A) take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act; 
     and
       (B) apply with respect to an activity described in 
     subsection (b) of section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 
     1996, as amended by this section, that is commenced on or 
     after such date of enactment.
       (2) Applicability to ongoing activities relating to certain 
     activities.--A person that, before the date of the enactment 
     of this Act, commenced an activity described in section 5(b) 
     of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996, as in effect on the day 
     before such date of enactment, and continues the activity on 
     or after such date of enactment, shall be subject to the 
     provisions of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996, as amended by 
     this Act.

     SEC. 3. REPORT ON SANCTIONABLE ACTIVITIES.

       (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter for 
     a period not to exceed three years, the President shall 
     submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
     that contains the following information:
       (1) Any credible information regarding Iran's attempts to 
     develop, procure, or acquire goods, services, or technology 
     with respect to which sanctions may be imposed pursuant to 
     subparagraphs (B) and (C) of section 5(b)(1) of the Iran 
     Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 
     note), as added by section 2 of this Act.
       (2) Any credible information regarding Iran's acquisition 
     or attempted acquisition of significant arms and related 
     material in violation of paragraph 5 of Annex B of United 
     Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 (2015).
       (3) Any credible information regarding Iran's export or 
     attempted export of significant arms and related material in 
     violation of paragraph 6 of Annex B of United Nations 
     Security Council Resolution 2231 (2015).
       (4) Any approval granted by the United Nations Security 
     Council for the export of significant arms and related 
     material identified under paragraphs 5 or 6 of Annex B of 
     United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 (2015).
       (5) Any credible information regarding violations of travel 
     restrictions described in paragraph 6 of Annex B of United 
     Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 (2015).
       (6) Any approval granted by the United Nations Security 
     Council for exemptions to the travel restrictions described 
     in paragraph 6 of Annex B of United Nations Security Council 
     Resolution 2231 (2015).
       (b) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
     submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified 
     annex.

     SEC. 4. DETERMINATIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE IMPOSITION OF 
                   SANCTIONS FOR THE SALE OR TRANSFER OF 
                   DESTABILIZING TYPES AND AMOUNTS OF CONVENTIONAL 
                   WEAPONS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF IRAN.

       (a) Notification of Sales and Transfers.--Not later than 90 
     days after the date on which the President receives credible 
     information that destabilizing numbers and types of 
     conventional weapons have been sold or transferred to Iran, 
     the President shall notify the appropriate congressional 
     committees of the sale or transfer.
       (b) Determinations With Respect to Sanctions.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date on 
     which the President notifies the appropriate congressional 
     committees of a sale or transfer under subsection (a), the 
     President shall--
       (A) determine whether such sale or transfer meets the 
     requirements to impose sanctions under each provision of law 
     specified in subsection (c); and
       (B)(i) if the determination is that the sale or transfer is 
     subject to any such sanctions, the President shall--
       (I) make a determination whether to impose or waive such 
     sanctions with respect to such sale or transfer; and
       (II) submit that determination to the appropriate 
     congressional committees; or
       (ii) if the determination is that the sale or transfer is 
     not subject to any such sanctions, the President shall submit 
     to the appropriate congressional committees a detailed report 
     on the determination and the specific reasons for the 
     determination.
       (2) Form.--The determination in paragraph (1) shall be 
     provided in an unclassified form, and may contain a 
     classified annex.
       (c) Provisions of Law Specified.--The provisions of law 
     specified in this subsection are the following:
       (1) Section 5(b)(1) of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (50 
     U.S.C. 1701 note), as amended by section 2 of this Act.
       (2) The Iran-Iraq Arms Non-Proliferation Act of 1992 (50 
     U.S.C. 1701 note).
       (3) The Iran, North Korea, and Syria Nonproliferation Act 
     (50 U.S.C. 1701 note).
       (d) Definition.--In this section, the term ``destabilizing 
     numbers and types of advanced conventional weapons''--
       (1) has the meaning given the terms ``advanced conventional 
     weapons'' and ``cruise missile'' as defined in paragraphs (1) 
     and (2), respectively, of section 1608 of the Iran-Iraq Arms 
     Non-Proliferation Act of 1992 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); and
       (2) includes the S-300 and S-400 missile defense systems 
     and air superiority fighters.

     SEC. 5. DETERMINATION ON USE BY THE GOVERNMENT OF IRAN OF 
                   COMMERCIAL PASSENGER AIRCRAFT AND RELATED 
                   SERVICES FOR ILLICIT MILITARY OR OTHER 
                   ACTIVITIES.

       (a) Determination.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter 
     for three years, the President shall submit to the 
     appropriate congressional committees a determination on use 
     by the Government of Iran of commercial passenger aircraft 
     and related services for illicit military or other activities 
     on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
       (b) Elements of Determination.--The determination required 
     under subsection (a) shall include a description of the 
     extent to which--
       (1) commercial passenger aircraft in Iran are being used to 
     transport--
       (A) arms or related materiel, including defense articles, 
     defense services, or technical data that are controlled on 
     the United States Munitions List established under section 38 
     of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778);
       (B) any item that is, or would be, if located in the United 
     States, controlled by Export Control Classification Number 
     600 series listed on the Commerce Control List maintained 
     under Supplement No. 1 to part 774 of the Export 
     Administration Regulations;
       (C) items used to facilitate the development or production 
     of a chemical or biological weapon or other weapon of mass 
     destruction and their means of delivery, including ballistic 
     missiles and cruise missiles; or
       (D) any foreign person that facilitates the transfer of any 
     of the articles described in subparagraphs (A) through (C);
       (2) commercial passenger aircraft licensed by the Office of 
     Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury are 
     being used for activities described in paragraph (1); and
       (3) foreign governments and persons have facilitated the 
     activities described in paragraph (1), including allowing the 
     use of airports, services, or other resources.
       (c) Form of Determination.--The determination required 
     under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form 
     but may include a classified annex.
       (d) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Commercial passenger aircraft.--The term ``commercial 
     passenger aircraft'' includes--
       (A) an aircraft of United States origin and that is 
     classified under Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) 
     9A99l on the Commerce Control List maintained under 
     Supplement No. 1 to part 774 of the Export Administration 
     Regulations; or

[[Page H8174]]

       (B) an aircraft not of United States origin of which United 
     States-controlled content constitutes 10 percent or more of 
     the total value of the aircraft and that is--
       (i) classified under Export Control Classification Number 
     (ECCN) 9A99l on the Commerce Control List maintained under 
     Supplement No. 1 to part 774 of the Export Administration 
     Regulations; and
       (ii) is registered in a jurisdiction other than the United 
     States.
       (2) Export administration regulations.--The term ``Export 
     Administration Regulations'' means subchapter C of chapter 
     VII of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations.
       (3) Related services.--The term ``related services'', with 
     respect to a commercial passenger aircraft, includes--
       (A) the export, re-export, sale, lease, or transfer to Iran 
     of spare parts and components; and
       (B) warranty, maintenance, and repair services.

     SEC. 6. REGULATORY AUTHORITY.

       (a) In General.--The President shall, not later than 120 
     days after the date of the enactment of this Act, promulgate 
     regulations as necessary for the implementation of this Act 
     and the amendments made by this Act.
       (b) Notification to Congress.--Not less than 10 days before 
     the promulgation of regulations under subsection (a), the 
     President shall notify the appropriate congressional 
     committees of the proposed regulations and the provisions of 
     this Act and the amendments made by this Act that the 
     regulations are implementing.

     SEC. 7. DEFINITIONS.

       In this Act:
       (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
     ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
       (A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, the Committee on Financial Services, the Committee 
     on Appropriations, the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of 
     the House of Representatives; and
       (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
     Finance, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
     Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, and the Select 
     Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.
       (2) Credible information.--The term ``credible 
     information'' has the meaning given such term in section 14 
     of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 
     U.S.C. 1701 note).
       (3) Government of iran.--The term ``Government of Iran'' 
     has the meaning given such term in section 560.304 of title 
     31, Code of Federal Regulations, as such section was in 
     effect on January 1, 2016.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Royce) and the gentleman from New York (Mr. Engel) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.


                             General Leave

  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that 
all Members may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their 
remarks and to include any extraneous material.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from California?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, today the House of Representatives here considers four 
measures that we have worked on in a bipartisan way, four measures that 
are consistent with the President's call for an approach to Iran that 
addresses the full range of threats that it possesses to not just the 
United States, but to our allies, to our partners as well.
  This legislation, which I have authored along with my colleague, 
Eliot Engel, I am proud to say we now have 323 cosponsors to this bill. 
This is the bipartisan Iran Ballistic Missiles and International 
Sanctions Enforcement Act.
  What this does is respond to the regime's continued pursuit of 
intercontinental ballistic missiles and to dangerous conventional 
weapons.
  Mr. Speaker, I will begin by thanking my good friend, Mr. Engel, for 
his hard work, his collaboration, along with Mr. Steny Hoyer and Mr. 
McCarthy, in bringing this important legislation to this floor.
  Iran has already developed an arsenal of short- and medium-range 
ballistic missiles, and those missiles put our allies, our partners, as 
well as U.S. forces in range.
  Now Iran is working on intercontinental ballistic missiles. I think 
to get the point across, I would just quote our former Secretary of 
Defense, Ash Carter, because he testified before Congress on this 
issue. What he conveyed to us is: `` . . . the I in ICBM stands for 
intercontinental, which means having the capability from flying from 
Iran to the United States, and we don't want that.''
  That was the way he explained this.
  One of the reasons that we don't want that is that intercontinental 
ballistic missiles are inherently capable of carrying nuclear weapons. 
In fact, as one expert told the Foreign Affairs Committee, ``no country 
that has not aspired to possess nuclear weapons has ever opted to 
sustain'' a lengthy and expensive missile program.
  I would take issue with that. I do know of one exception to that 
rule. That exception was South Africa under the apartheid regime, which 
did develop the atomic weapon. It is an example of how sanctions can be 
successful, because when we passed sanctions here, the consequence was 
they made a decision to turn that weapon back over to the IAEA, as well 
as to allow Nelson Mandela to leave jail, and they held elections. That 
is the exception I know of.
  So whether you supported the nuclear deal or whether you opposed that 
nuclear deal, this other issue should concern you either way. By 
developing the delivery system, Iran is keeping its options open.
  So from those who worked on the deal, one of the architects, Jake 
Sullivan of the former administration, made it clear to us--and this 
was 2 weeks ago--that imposing costs on Iran for its continued pursuit 
of ballistic missiles and other destabilizing activity is ``not only 
necessary, but justified.''
  That is one of the architects of the agreement itself.
  That is what this bill does. It requires a comprehensive 
investigation to identify and designate the companies, the banks, the 
individuals inside and outside of Iran which supply the regime's 
missiles and supply their conventional weapons programs, and it 
sanctions them. In doing so, it shuts out Iranian and foreign companies 
involved in Iran's missile program. It also shuts out the banks that 
back them. It shuts them out from the global financial system.
  This bill expands Iran sanctions that we passed and were signed into 
law in August with H.R. 3364, the Countering America's Adversaries 
Through Sanctions Act.
  For example, while the bill that passed over the summer specifically 
sanctions those who materially contribute to Iran's ballistic missile 
program, the bill before us today goes a step further by sanctioning 
those that are in the business of financing Iran's efforts.
  The conventional weapons prohibition in the bill before us are also 
stronger, and let me explain why. The August legislation referenced the 
United Nations Register of Conventional Arms, which excludes such items 
as Russia's recent sale of the S-300 air defense system to Iran. The 
bill before us ensures that there is no such carve-out.
  Mr. Speaker, Members have different views on how to handle Iran's 
nuclear program, but when it comes to Iran's ballistic missile and 
conventional weapons programs, all 323 cosponsors of this bill agree: 
Iran has no business developing or acquiring intercontinental ballistic 
missiles. That is why it is so important that we pass this bill and 
give the administration the tools to respond.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.

                                         House of Representatives,


                                  Committee on Ways and Means,

                                 Washington, DC, October 23, 2017.
     Hon. Edward R. Royce,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Royce: I am writing with respect to H.R. 
     1698, the ``Iran Ballistic Missiles and International 
     Sanctions Enforcement Act,'' on which the Committee on Ways 
     and Means was granted an additional referral.
       As a result of your having consulted with us on provisions 
     in H.R. 1698 that fall within the Rule X jurisdiction of the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, I agree to waive formal 
     consideration of this bill so that it may move expeditiously 
     to the floor. The Committee on Ways and Means takes this 
     action with the mutual understanding that we do not waive any 
     jurisdiction over the subject matter contained in this or 
     similar legislation, and the Committee will be appropriately 
     consulted and involved as the bill or similar legislation 
     moves forward so that we may address any remaining issues 
     that fall within our jurisdiction. The Committee also 
     reserves the right to seek appointment of an

[[Page H8175]]

     appropriate number of conferees to any House-Senate 
     conference involving this or similar legislation, and 
     requests your support for such request.
       Finally, I would appreciate your response to this letter 
     confirming this understanding, and would ask that a copy of 
     our exchange of letters on this matter be included in the 
     Congressional Record during floor consideration of H.R. 1698.
           Sincerely,
                                                      Kevin Brady,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                                 Committee on Foreign Affairs,

                                 Washington, DC, October 23, 2017.
     Hon. Kevin Brady,
     Chairman, Committee on Ways and Means,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Brady: Thank you for consulting with the 
     Foreign Affairs Committee and agreeing to be discharged from 
     further consideration of H.R. 1698, the Iran Ballistic 
     Missiles and International Sanctions Enforcement Act, so that 
     the bill may proceed expeditiously to the House floor.
       I agree that your forgoing further action on this measure 
     does not in any way diminish or alter the jurisdiction of 
     your committee, or prejudice its jurisdictional prerogatives 
     on this resolution or similar legislation in the future. I 
     would support your effort to seek appointment of an 
     appropriate number of conferees from your committee to any 
     House-Senate conference on this legislation.
       I will seek to place our letters on H.R. 1698 into the 
     Congressional Record during floor consideration of the bill. 
     I appreciate your cooperation regarding this legislation and 
     look forward to continuing to work together as this measure 
     moves through the legislative process.
           Sincerely,
                                                  Edward R. Royce,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                              Committee on Financial Services,

                                 Washington, DC, October 20, 2017.
     Hon. Ed Royce,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
     Washington, DC.
        Dear Chairman Royce: I am writing concerning H.R. 1698, 
     the Iran Ballistic Missiles and International Sanctions 
     Enforcement Act, as amended.
       As a result of your having consulted with the Committee on 
     Financial Services concerning provisions in the bill that 
     fall within our Rule X jurisdiction, I agree to forgo action 
     on the bill so that it may proceed expeditiously to the House 
     Floor. The Committee on Financial Services takes this action 
     with our mutual understanding that, by foregoing 
     consideration of H.R. 1698, as amended, at this time, we do 
     not waive any jurisdiction over the subject matter contained 
     in this or similar legislation, and that our Committee will 
     be appropriately consulted and involved as this or similar 
     legislation moves forward so that we may address any 
     remaining issues that fall within our Rule X jurisdiction. 
     Our Committee also reserves the right to seek appointment of 
     an appropriate number of conferees to any House-Senate 
     conference involving this or similar legislation, and 
     requests your support for any such request.
       Finally, I would appreciate your response to this letter 
     confirming this understanding with respect to H.R. 1698 and 
     would ask that a copy of our exchange of letters on this 
     matter be included in the Committee Report and the 
     Congressional Record during floor consideration thereof.
           Sincerely,
                                                   Jeb Hensarling,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                                 Committee on Foreign Affairs,

                                 Washington, DC, October 23, 2017.
     Hon. Jeb Hensarling,
     Chairman, Committee on Financial Services,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Hensarling: Thank you for consulting with the 
     Foreign Affairs Committee and agreeing to be discharged from 
     further consideration of H.R. 1698, the Iran Ballistic 
     Missiles and International Sanctions Enforcement Act, so that 
     the bill may proceed expeditiously to the House floor.
       I agree that your forgoing further action on this measure 
     does not in any way diminish or alter the jurisdiction of 
     your committee, or prejudice its jurisdictional prerogatives 
     on this resolution or similar legislation in the future. I 
     would support your effort to seek appointment of an 
     appropriate number of conferees from your committee to any 
     House-Senate conference on this legislation.
       I will seek to place our letters on H.R. 1698 into the 
     Congressional Record during floor consideration of the bill. 
     I appreciate your cooperation regarding this legislation and 
     look forward to continuing to work together as this measure 
     moves through the legislative process.
           Sincerely,
                                                  Edward R. Royce,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                                 Committee on Foreign Affairs,

                                 Washington, DC, October 23, 2017.
     Hon. Bob Goodlatte,
     Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Goodlatte: Thank you for consulting with the 
     Foreign Affairs Committee and agreeing to be discharged from 
     further consideration of H.R. 1698, the Iran Ballistic 
     Missiles and International Sanctions Enforcement Act, so that 
     the bill may proceed expeditiously to the House floor.
       I agree that your forgoing further action on this measure 
     does not in any way diminish or alter the jurisdiction of 
     your committee, or prejudice its jurisdictional prerogatives 
     on this resolution or similar legislation in the future. I 
     would support your effort to seek appointment of an 
     appropriate number of conferees from your committee to any 
     House-Senate conference on this legislation.
       I will seek to place our letters on H.R. 1698 into the 
     Congressional Record during floor consideration of the bill. 
     I appreciate your cooperation regarding this legislation and 
     look forward to continuing to work together as this measure 
     moves through the legislative process.
           Sincerely,
                                                  Edward R. Royce,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

         House of Representatives, Committee on Oversight and 
           Government Reform,
                                 Washington, DC, October 24, 2017.
     Hon. Edward R. Royce,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs, House of 
         Representatives, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: I write concerning H.R. 1698, the ``Iran 
     Ballistic Missiles and International Sanctions Enforcement 
     Act.'' This bill would expand sanctions against Iran with 
     respect to the ballistic missile program of Iran and contains 
     provisions within the jurisdiction of the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform. As a result of your having 
     consulted with me concerning the provisions of the bill that 
     fall within our Rule X jurisdiction, I agree to forgo 
     consideration of the bill so the bill may proceed 
     expeditiously to the House floor.
       The Committee takes this action with our mutual 
     understanding that by foregoing consideration of H.R. 1698 at 
     this time we do not waive any jurisdiction over the subject 
     matter contained in this or similar legislation, and we will 
     be appropriately consulted and involved as the bill or 
     similar legislation moves forward so that we may address any 
     remaining issues that fall within our Rule X jurisdiction. 
     Further, I request your support for the appointment of 
     conferees from the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform during any House-Senate conference convened on this or 
     related legislation.
       Finally, I would appreciate your response to this letter 
     confirming this understanding and ask that a copy of our 
     exchange of letters on this matter be included in the bill 
     report filed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as well as 
     in the Congressional Record during floor consideration 
     thereof.
           Sincerely,
     Trey Gowdy.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                                 Committee on Foreign Affairs,

                                 Washington, DC, October 23, 2017.
     Hon. Trey Gowdy,
     Chairman, Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, 
         Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Gowdy: Thank you for consulting with the 
     Foreign Affairs Committee and agreeing to be discharged from 
     further consideration of H.R. 1698, the Iran Ballistic 
     Missiles and International Sanctions Enforcement Act, so that 
     the bill may proceed expeditiously to the House floor.
       I agree that your forgoing further action on this measure 
     does not in any way diminish or alter the jurisdiction of 
     your committee, or prejudice its jurisdictional prerogatives 
     on this resolution or similar legislation in the future. I 
     would support your effort to seek appointment of an 
     appropriate number of conferees from your committee to any 
     House-Senate conference on this legislation.
       I will seek to place our letters on H.R. 1698 into the 
     Congressional Record during floor consideration of the bill. 
     I appreciate your cooperation regarding this legislation and 
     look forward to continuing to work together as this measure 
     moves through the legislative process.
           Sincerely,
                                                  Edward R. Royce,
                                                         Chairman.

  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as much time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this measure.
  Let me thank our chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, my 
friend, Ed Royce from California, for his work moving this bill. I was 
pleased to join him as the lead Democratic cosponsor when we introduced 
this bill in March of this year.
  I stand by his entire statement that he has just made. We have an 
absolute meeting of the minds on this bill, and that is why we were 
able to get 323 cosponsors on both sides of the aisle, because people 
understand and realize the threat that Iran poses to us, to the world, 
and to our allies.
  The Foreign Affairs Committee has been hard at work this year 
devising new tools and approaches for dealing with the threat of Iran. 
There is no doubt that Iran must be one of our major priorities in our 
foreign policy, the world's most prolific state sponsor of terrorism, a 
serial abuser of human rights, a lifeline for the murderous

[[Page H8176]]

Assad regime in Syria, and the challenge we are dealing with today: 
Iran's illicit development of ballistic missiles.
  The chairman and I share the view that when it comes to the nuclear 
deal, which we both opposed, the best path forward is to enforce the 
hell out of it even while we work to hold Iran's feet to the fire on 
all these other harmful activities.
  We passed a tough sanctions bill last summer to crack down on Iran, 
as well as North Korea and Russia. While the bill before us today 
basically contains very similar provisions which we dealt with then 
and, as the chairman explained, we go one step further here, I am 
always eager to find even more ways to dial up pressure on the regime 
in Tehran, which is a malevolent regime, which is a regime that 
sponsors terrorism, which is a regime that is hostile to the United 
States, hostile to our ally Israel, and hostile to our other allies in 
the Middle East. But I worry that the administration isn't taking this 
problem seriously.
  So far, the White House hasn't fully implemented the previous bill we 
sent to the President. The White House's approach to the nuclear deal 
sends a bad message to allies and adversaries around the world that the 
United States might not live up to its word. Rather than extracting 
more concessions with Iran, which I believe may be possible by working 
hard to build a strong multilateral coalition, the course of this may 
instead push Iran to leave the deal and resume work on a bomb. We can 
never allow that to happen.
  So I am happy that we keep passing the sanctions bills, but Congress' 
role can only go so far. It is up to the administration to lay out its 
goals, devise a strategy, and implement the tough sanctions Congress 
has passed. It is more than 60 days since we passed the sanctions bill, 
and the President has not implemented it. According to the bill, which 
the President signed, it was supposed to be implemented within 60 days, 
so it sends a mixed message.
  Talking tough is not enough. Congress sends a bill to the White 
House, the President signs it, it really should be implemented. So I 
want to urge the President and the administration to listen to this 
Congress in a bipartisan way. We passed this bill. It needs to be 
implemented, and it needs to be passed and implemented again.
  In the meantime, I am happy to support this bill. I think this shows 
that we need to work together when it comes to Iran in a bipartisan way 
to show that there is really not a shred of difference, that we will 
not stand for Iran's aggression, we will not stand for the mullahs 
threatening us, we will not stand for Iran stomping on its own people.
  Mr. Speaker, I again thank the chairman for his leadership on this 
issue. I urge my friends on both sides of the aisle to support it, and 
I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. McCaul), chairman of the Committee on 
Homeland Security. He is a former Federal prosecutor and a senior 
member of our Committee on Foreign Affairs.
  Mr. McCAUL. Mr. Speaker, let me first commend Chairman Royce and 
Ranking Member Eliot Engel for their strong bipartisan work on this 
very important legislation that sanctions Iran's ballistic missile 
program and the Iranian-backed terror group Hezbollah.
  Over the last several decades, the tyrannical regime in Iran has been 
racing to develop a nuclear weapons program that could threaten the 
United States and our allies and potentially spark an arms race in the 
Middle East.
  Unfortunately, the extremely flawed JCPOA kept parts of Iran's 
nuclear infrastructure in place and strengthened the regime's leader 
with a windfall of cash. Because this toothless deal failed to address 
Iran's other malign activities, such as support for terror and their 
intercontinental ballistic missile program, we must now find other ways 
to apply new pressure.
  Fortunately, the House is taking action today. One of the bills we 
are considering will require the President to impose additional 
sanctions on enemies and individuals supporting Iran's development of 
ballistic missiles. I sincerely hope that we can soon add even more 
pressure on Iran by designating the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps 
as a foreign terrorist organization, legislation I pursued in the last 
two Congresses.
  Going after state sponsors is an important part of winning this 
fight, but we must fight also directly individual terror groups to 
limit the resources to prevent future attacks. That is why I am pleased 
that we also are considering measures to target Hezbollah.
  This package would direct the President to impose new sanctions on 
financial institutions and foreign governments that support Hezbollah 
and affiliated organizations, as well as individual members of the 
terror groups, that they have used civilians as human shields.

                              {time}  1445

  I will say it is Hezbollah that killed so many of our marines in 
Beirut, Lebanon, let us not forget.
  The chairman and ranking member and I recently visited Israel, Prime 
Minister Netanyahu, who described the Shia Crescent of Iran going into 
Iraq, into Syria, into Lebanon. He talked to us about the manufacturing 
plant in Lebanon manufacturing rockets pointed straight at the State of 
Israel.
  These bills, I believe, will take us steps closer toward ridding the 
world of this terrible threat posed by Islamic terror.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the chairman and ranking member.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the 
gentleman from California (Mr. McCarthy), the esteemed majority leader 
of the House.
  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding time to 
me. I want to thank the gentleman for his work as chairman of the 
Foreign Affairs Committee.
  Mr. Speaker, I stand on this floor thinking of the world and 
America's place in it. What I desire most is peace. America has no 
desire to fight those who do not harm us. I would gladly support any 
international agreement that I thought would bring us to an honorable 
and enduring peace.
  But peace is not based on hope; it is not based on good intentions; 
and it is not based on pieces of paper signed at well-planned 
ceremonies. Peace is based on strength. America and our allies will 
only be at peace if those who hate us fear us. This is where our 
credibility matters.
  When an American President agrees to a deal that is so obviously 
unequal and untenable, everyone stops fearing us. They start to think 
they can push us around.
  Let me be clear. They may start to push, but no one can knock us 
down. America will win any fight. Our enemies should know that. But, 
frankly, I want our enemies to be so afraid of us they don't even want 
to fight. That saves everyone a great deal of trouble.
  When I look back to our nuclear deal with North Korea and our deal 
with Iran, they aren't just flawed; they are dangerous. The displays of 
weakness have consequences beyond nuclear weapons.
  Our North Korea deal has failed. The Kim regime will soon have 
nuclear warheads on intercontinental ballistic missiles. These warheads 
will be capable of hitting our homeland. In the meantime, they have 
reportedly fired missiles over our allies South Korea and Japan and, 
almost daily, threatened war.
  The deal with Iran is on a path to failure, designed in such a way 
that, even if it were followed, a regime that chants ``death to 
America''--let me say that again, a regime that chants ``death to 
America''--could have nuclear weapons the day after the deal expires.
  Even ignoring the deal, Iran continues to destabilize the region for 
its own goal, funding terrorism abroad and fueling violence between 
Shia and Sunni Muslims that is tearing the Middle East apart.
  The spread of nuclear weapons is a danger in and of itself. I do not 
need to explain why enemies of the United States should be stopped from 
gaining the power to level American cities, but the evil is made worse 
when our enemies, with any weapons, think they can push America and our 
allies around.
  America will not be weak any longer. Today's sanction on Iran 
undermines its ballistic missile program and the terrorist warriors of 
Hezbollah whose pockets are filled with Iranian money,

[[Page H8177]]

just as their hands are covered with American blood. This is an 
important part of our Nation's new Iran strategy.
  Yesterday, we passed the most far-reaching sanctions we have ever 
imposed on North Korea. Those who do business with North Korea support 
a regime run on slave labor. They support a regime that deprives its 
citizens of every freedom, even the freedom to think, and they support 
a regime that tortured and murdered American citizen Otto Warmbier not 
because he committed a crime or threatened their government in any way, 
but because he was an American. If you do business with such a regime, 
there will be severe consequences.
  I had the honor of meeting Otto's parents, Cindy and Fred. They told 
me about Otto's warmth, his joy, his love of life, and the great hopes 
he had. In everything, he stood as a living example of the good in 
humanity that the Kim regime seeks to destroy. We renamed that 
legislation as the Otto Warmbier North Korea Nuclear Sanctions Act. It 
won't bring him back, but it will remind North Korea that evil has 
consequences.
  Otto's murder was a crime we cannot accept, but it is a crime, I 
fear, our enemies would repeat on a much larger scale if we do not 
start stopping them now. Let's remind them who they are up against. 
America will not fail.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. Ros-Lehtinen), who chairs the Foreign 
Affairs Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, and she is 
the author of multiple laws addressing the Iranian threat.
  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Royce for authoring 
this bill alongside our good friend Ranking Member Eliot Engel, the 
dynamic duo of Foreign Affairs. I want to thank them for their 
leadership and their continued effort in holding Iran accountable.
  Mr. Speaker, this bipartisan bill is called the Iran Ballistic 
Missile and International Sanctions Enforcement Act, authored by our 
chairman and ranking member. It is a strong and important bill. It 
sanctions Iranian and foreign persons and entities that support, that 
facilitate, that finance Iran's ballistic missile program. It is a 
necessary measure because, as we know, Iran has felt emboldened to 
continue advancing its missile program since the P5+1 and Iran 
concluded the weak nuclear deal.
  Tehran has taken advantage of this deal and the U.N. Security Council 
resolution that endorsed the agreement. Despite language that prohibits 
Iran's ballistic missile testing in U.N. Resolution 2231, Iran has 
actually increased its missile activities, violating both the spirit 
and the letter of the resolution.

  With the President having made his determination 2 weeks ago that 
Iran is not in compliance with its commitments under the Iran Nuclear 
Agreement Review Act, we now have an opportunity to address the 
weakness in the nuclear deal and also Iran's illicit activity.
  We must continue to press forward on a dual track. We must continue 
to hold Iran accountable for its nonnuclear illicit activity, while 
also looking to address our concerns with the nuclear deal. They are 
not mutually exclusive, Mr. Speaker. Both are extremely important for 
our national security. This is an important step.
  I thank the Members for their great leadership. I support passage of 
Chairman Royce and Eliot Engel's measure.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. Poe). He is the chairman of the Foreign 
Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade.
  Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for this 
legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, Iran continues to be one of the two greatest threats to 
the United States' national security and to global security. The other, 
of course, is North Korea.
  It has become very clear that the Iranian deal has not moderated the 
regime. Regardless of where people are on whether we should have signed 
it or not signed it, it hasn't stopped the aggressive activity and 
belief of the regime.
  I believe that they are still developing or trying to develop nuclear 
weapons. No one denies that Iran is actively working toward developing 
a delivery capability for a nuclear payload. Iran's ballistic missile 
program is going to be and already is a menace not only to the United 
States, but to Europe and other parts of the world.
  Iran is working with North Korea to develop intercontinental 
ballistic missiles capable of reaching our shores. These two nations 
engage in their activity and belief in hate--hate--of freedom to 
destroy the United States and our some of our allies. We should 
understand that this is a reality and the threat is now. We should deal 
with both of those countries accordingly, not in 10 years.
  This legislation, Mr. Royce's Iran Ballistic Missiles and 
International Sanctions Enforcement Act, is very crucial.
  We must hold the Ayatollah accountable for threatening the global 
security and our security.
  We must hold the Ayatollah and the IRGC and Hezbollah accountable for 
the people that have been murdered throughout the world because of 
their response to hate, their hating of all peoples who don't agree 
with them.
  We must target the entire global supply chain of Iran's ballistic 
missile program. I believe the Ayatollah, Mr. Speaker, when he tells 
us, on a periodic basis, ``Death to America.'' I believe him when he 
says that. That is their foreign policy to the United States: ``Death 
to America.'' Americans should believe this.
  Mr. Speaker, we must make sure that he does not have the capability 
to achieve a delivery system of his nuclear weapons, and I urge voting 
in favor of H.R. 1698.
  Mr. Speaker, I also do want to mention another bill that I think is 
important that we pass today, Mr. Deutch's H.R. 359.
  In 2013, the European Union finally came around to designating 
Hezbollah as a terrorist organization, but for reasons that make 
absolutely no sense to me, the Europeans only designated Hezbollah's 
military wing, not the political wing. By distinguishing between a 
terrorist group's so-called military and political wings, it seems like 
we have legitimized this group's deadly behavior.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield an additional 30 
seconds to the gentleman.
  Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, Hezbollah is a terrorist organization, 
and wherever you look in the Middle East and you find trouble, you will 
find the IRGC and Hezbollah working together. These two agencies from 
Iran are the gestapo actors for the Iranian Ayatollah, and it is time 
that we hold them accountable for what they are doing. We must pass 
these pieces of legislation, and this will go a long way in doing that.
  And that is just the way it is.
  Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, as we have shown again and again, and you can tell with 
all the comments that were made here, there is support on both sides of 
the aisle for holding Iran accountable for its dangerous behavior.
  While today's bill is similar to the bipartisan sanctions Congress 
passed during the summer, the direction we are moving today with this 
bill is the right one: going after Iran for something outside the scope 
of the nuclear deal.
  When the nuclear deal was negotiated, we were told very clearly that 
it would not prevent us, would not stop us from slapping sanctions on 
Iran for other things, other things like support of terrorism or 
ballistic missiles, or all the troublemaking activities that they do.
  This is what we are doing today. We are slapping sanctions on Iran 
for its behavior. We are slapping sanctions on Iran because we are not 
going to stand for their doing whatever they please and helping 
terrorism, suppressing rights of its people, and being a general threat 
to the United States.

                              {time}  1500

  So I hope that we can get a strong, bipartisan, overwhelming vote for 
this bill the way we did in the bill that Chairman Royce and I 
introduced 3

[[Page H8178]]

months ago, again, which gave the President 60 days to identify 
sanctions, which was not done beyond the 60 days, and I hope that the 
administration forthwith does that now.
  So I think this is an important measure. I think it is an important 
measure to have a strong bipartisan vote because we have to show the 
Iranians that, while we may disagree on certain things, there is no 
disagreement on the fact that we regard Iran as the largest state 
sponsor of terrorism.
  It is true of both sides of the aisle that we regard Iran as 
threatening; that we regard Iran as dangerous in the Middle East; that 
we regard Iran, unfortunately, as an adversary of the United States. 
The comments with the rallies that the Ayatollah holds, death to 
America, death to Israel, is not something that we can countenance in 
this country, and so we are going to fight it.
  I am very proud of what the House is doing today. I urge a ``yes'' 
vote. And I want to thank Chairman Royce, once again, for his strong 
leadership on this measure and so many other measures.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.


                             General Leave

  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that 
all Members may have 5 legislative days to submit any statements or any 
material in the Record.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from California?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to thank all our members who worked on this bill. 
Over the last few years, the Foreign Affairs Committee has conducted 
dedicated oversight of the threats posed by Iran, and we have had 
dozens of hearings. And whether the topic was the nuclear program, or 
the missile program, or Iran's support for terrorism, or the regime's 
human rights abuses, the conclusion was clear. The United States must 
respond to the full range of threats, and with this bill and the others 
before us, that is what we are doing here today.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time
  Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1698, 
and am proud to cosponsor the Iran Ballistic Missiles and International 
Sanctions Enhancement Act because we must do everything in our power to 
curb, and ultimately put an end to Iran's malign behavior in the Middle 
East region and across the globe.
  United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231, which governs 
implementation of the JCPOA, contains travel restrictions for certain 
Iranian individuals. One such individual is Commander of the IRGC's 
Quds Force, General Qasem Soleimani. There are troubling reports that 
General Soleimani has traveled to Russia, and other countries, in 
violation of UNSCR 2231, yet, the United States and the United Nations 
have failed to act.
  I am pleased my amendment to require a report on any credible 
information regarding violations of the UN travel restrictions and any 
exemptions that have been approved by the Security Council is included 
in this bill. These travel restrictions were put in place for good 
reason and we deserve to know whether in fact violations have occurred 
and what the U.S. and UN plan to do in response.
  I urge my colleagues to support passage of H.R. 1698.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois). The question 
is on the motion offered by the gentleman from California (Mr. Royce) 
that the House suspend the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1698, as 
amended.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and 
nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



