

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8302]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          THE GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA HAS A HUMAN RIGHTS CRISIS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Colorado (Mr. Coffman) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. COFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to call attention to the 
Government of Ethiopia's continued pattern of repression and violence 
against its own people, and I urge the House of Representatives to vote 
on H. Res. 128, the Supporting Respect for Human Rights and Encouraging 
Inclusive Governance in Ethiopia resolution.
  This resolution calls on the Government of Ethiopia to take clear, 
decisive steps towards becoming more inclusive, more democratic, and 
more respectful of the basic human rights of its own people.
  This resolution has overwhelming bipartisan support, with more than 
70 cosponsors, and it passed out of the House Foreign Affairs Committee 
unanimously on July 27.
  The ongoing human rights crisis in Ethiopia is extremely troubling to 
me, to the resolution's other cosponsors, the many Americans of 
Ethiopian heritage, and too numerous to list human rights groups. I 
firmly believe that the passage of this resolution will encourage the 
Ethiopian Government to end its practice of violence and repression and 
provide a strong basis for an inclusive government.
  Specifically, this resolution condemns the excessive use of force by 
Ethiopian security forces and the killing of peaceful protestors; the 
arrests and detention of journalists, students, activists, and 
political leaders; and the Ethiopian Government's abuse of the anti-
terrorism proclamation to stifle political and civil dissent.
  The resolution does not simply highlight the Ethiopian Government's 
increasingly authoritarian acts, but it also encourages the United 
States to support efforts to improve democracy and governance in 
Ethiopia.
  I believe that the United States can take actions that will 
positively influence the Ethiopian Government and use our existing 
institutions to further democracy and effective governance in Ethiopia.
  Critically, the resolution calls on the Ethiopian Government to admit 
U.N. human rights observers so they can conduct an independent and 
thorough examination of the current state of human rights in Ethiopia.
  On March 9 of this year, the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on 
Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights, and International 
Organizations held a hearing to discuss specific steps the United 
States can take to bring about positive changes for the Ethiopian 
Government and their people.
  Among those who testified was Deacon Yoseph Tafari of the St. Mary's 
Ethiopian Orthodox Church located in Aurora, Colorado. Deacon Yoseph 
was raised in Ethiopia and has experienced the daily struggles too many 
Ethiopians have faced living in abject poverty under an oppressive 
government.
  Deacon Yoseph fled from Ethiopia in 1976 and came to the United 
States as a refugee. He and many of the members of the Ethiopian 
community in my congressional district of Colorado, including the Oromo 
and Amharas, have worked diligently to organize and assist those still 
suffering from repression in their home country.
  Oromo community president of Colorado, Jamal Said, has also shared 
his concerns with me, and both of these gentlemen have no motives other 
than a concern about the safety and state of democracy in Ethiopia. I 
appreciate their leadership in the community as they continue to fight 
for democracy in their homeland.
  Unfortunately, stories like this are not uncommon in my district, and 
I am disappointed that the House has not yet scheduled a floor vote on 
H. Res. 128. I note that on two prior occasions a vote was tentatively 
scheduled. In both of these instances, it is my understanding that the 
vote was postponed due to pressure from the Ethiopian Government, which 
continues to make promises to curb human rights abuses against their 
own people, but fail to deliver.
  Additionally, it has been brought to my attention that the Ethiopian 
Government has threatened to cut off security cooperation with United 
States should we proceed with H. Res. 128.
  I am particularly dismayed that rather than solving their problems 
and moving towards becoming a more democratic country, the Ethiopian 
Government has chosen instead to hire a D.C. lobbying firm at a cost of 
$150,000 a month to ``work with the Ethiopian Government to develop and 
execute a public affairs plan to enhance the dialogue and relationships 
with policymakers, media, opinion leaders, and business leaders,'' in 
addition to ``meetings with Members of Congress, their staffs, and 
executive branch officials.''
  The issue the Ethiopian Government needs to address is the repression 
of democracy and its citizens in Ethiopia. The solution to whatever 
negative perception it has in the Halls of the U.S. Congress is not a 
public affairs one, but, rather, what concrete steps are being taken 
against democracy in Ethiopia.
  That is why I remain committed to working with House leadership to 
have a vote scheduled on H. Res. 128.
  Mr. Speaker, I encourage leadership to schedule a vote, and I call on 
my colleagues to vote in favor of and pass H. Res. 128. I will continue 
working with local Ethiopian community leaders in Colorado and across 
the country to raise awareness of the human rights abuses occurring in 
Ethiopia and to bring relief from oppression to the Ethiopian people.

                          ____________________



