

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4797-S4798]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the en bloc consideration of the following nominations: 
Executive Calendar Nos. 166, 228, 229, 230, 231, 232, 233, 234, 236, 
237, 238, 245, 289, 290, and 291.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report the nominations en bloc.
  The bill clerk read the nominations of Mark Andrew Green, of 
Wisconsin, to be Administrator of the United States Agency for 
International Development; Sharon Day, of Florida, to be Ambassador 
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to 
the Republic of Costa Rica; Nathan Alexander Sales, of Ohio, to be 
Coordinator for Counterterrorism, with the rank and status of 
Ambassador at Large; George Edward Glass, of Oregon, to be Ambassador 
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to 
the Portuguese Republic; Robert Wood Johnson IV, of New York, to be 
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of 
America to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland; 
Luis E. Arreaga, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign 
Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary 
and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of 
Guatemala; Krishna R. Urs, of Connecticut, a Career Member of the 
Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador 
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to 
the Republic of Peru; Kay Bailey Hutchison, of Texas, to be United 
States Permanent Representative on the Council of the North Atlantic 
Treaty Organization, with the rank and status of Ambassador 
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary; Ray Washburne, of Texas, to be 
President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation; Kelley Eckels 
Currie, of Georgia, to be Representative of the United States of 
America on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, with 
the rank of Ambassador; Kelley Eckels Currie, of Georgia, to be an 
Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the 
Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, during her 
tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America on 
the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations; David Steele 
Bohigian, of Missouri, to be Executive Vice President of the Overseas 
Private Investment Corporation; Michael Arthur Raynor, of Maryland, a 
Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-
Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the 
United States of America to the Federal Democratic Republic of 
Ethiopia; Maria E. Brewer, of Indiana, a Career Member of the Senior 
Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador 
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to 
the Republic of Sierra Leone; and John P. Desrocher, of New York, a 
Career Member of the Senior

[[Page S4798]]

Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador 
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to 
the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria.
  There being no objection, the Senate proceeded to consider the 
nominations en bloc.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
vote on the nominations en bloc with no intervening action or debate; 
that if confirmed, the motions to reconsider be considered made and 
laid upon the table en bloc; that the President be immediately notified 
of the Senate's action; that no further motions be in order; and that 
any statements relating to the nominations be printed in the Record.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the Green, 
Day, Sales, Glass, Johnson, Arreaga, Urs, Hutchison, Washburne, Currie, 
Currie, Bohigian, Raynor, Brewer, and Desrocher nominations en bloc?
  The nominations were confirmed en bloc.

                          ____________________



