

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8147]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    TRIBUTE TO SUSAN HAWKES WHEELER

  Mr. CRAPO. Madam President, today I wish to honor Susan Hawkes 
Wheeler, chief of staff for my Washington, DC, office, for her 25 years 
of congressional service. Susan's trusted, dedicated, and perceptive 
counsel have been of great value throughout my congressional service.
  Susan is a native of Idaho and has always had the Gem State's 
interests in the forefront of her mind. I am fortunate that she chose 
to serve Idaho through my office. I first met Susan when she worked as 
a television reporter and news manager in Boise and Idaho Falls. She 
covered me when I first ran for public office. Later, after a job 
interview on a twin-engine plane flying between Boise and Twin Falls, I 
hired her to help me get elected to Congress. Her sharp wit and 
directness was and is refreshing and effective.
  After my election to the U.S. House of Representatives, Susan joined 
my congressional staff as press secretary and moved from Idaho to 
Washington, DC. This was back at a time when faxes still came on 
thermal curly paper and speed dials were limited to 10 numbers per 
machine. Radio actualities were done by actually splicing audiotape and 
calling each radio station separately to play the soundbite for them 
over the phone line, which was a landline. As technologies advanced, 
she met those changes with imaginative approaches and implemented 
innovative ways to improve communications and outreach with Idahoans. 
Her responsibilities also increased in my office.
  Susan served as my acting administrative assistant during my last 
year in the House. Then, in the Senate, she served as my communications 
director until June 2011, when she earned the job of chief of staff-DC. 
She proved herself someone who can always be counted on for a 
straightforward and reasoned approach, no matter the situation or the 
audience. She helped make the office more effective and has been 
integral to improving the way our office communicates with Idahoans.
  She improved the quality of the communication in my office, both 
externally and within the office. Her extensive work making the website 
a better resource for Idahoans has also resulted in it being recognized 
through multiple awards. Another of her achievements is the focus she 
has given to establishing office procedures and working with Senate 
administrative offices to fine-tune policies that enable smooth office 
operations. She also serves as a great example of leadership, 
communicating well with staff, and empowering them to share insight. 
While helping me become more effective, Susan has also taken the time 
to mentor countless staff and help young people start their careers.
  From day one, no matter the job title, Susan has always been a senior 
counselor with trusted insight given her deep familiarity with Idaho, 
experience, and sound judgement.
  Thank you, Susan, for dedicating so much of your time and talent to 
serving the people of Idaho in Congress and for your strong support and 
steady friendship.

                          ____________________



