

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 166 (Monday, October 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 166 (Monday, October 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6396]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 KEEP AMERICA'S REFUGES OPERATIONAL ACT

  Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, in celebration of National Wildlife Refuge 
Week, Senator Barrasso and I introduced legislation just prior to the 
recent recess to reauthorize the National Wildlife Refuge System's 
volunteer and partnerships program. I want to share with our colleagues 
some information about S. 1940, the Keep America's Refuges Operational 
Act, and ask for their support.
  The Keep America's Refuges Operational Act reauthorizes the volunteer 
and partnerships program, with no increase, at $2 million per year. The 
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service will use this authorization of Federal 
funding to provide volunteer uniforms, training, equipment, and 
necessary travel. The bill also allows volunteer groups to use this 
modest funding for administrative expenses directly related to the 
program.
  For example, these groups will now be able to use funding to complete 
administrative requirements of cooperative agreements with the U.S. 
Fish and Wildlife Service. Cooperative agreements enable volunteers to 
assist the agency in technical activities, such as bird banding, other 
wildlife tagging, and research.
  Our National Wildlife Refuge System is an exceptional network of 
public lands and waters dedicated to fish and wildlife conservation. 
More than 40 million people visit our refuges each year to explore, 
fish, hunt, and view and study wildlife. This ecotourism industry 
strongly supports local economies.
  Volunteers are critical to refuge operations, making up 20 percent of 
the refuge system's workforce. Volunteers assist with fish and wildlife 
surveys, restoring habitat, and supporting refuge office functions. 
Without volunteers and partner groups, refuges may have to cut back on 
public programs and reduce hours of operation.
  In my home State of Delaware, we have two beautiful refuges: the 
Prime Hook National Wildlife Refuge and the Bombay Hook National 
Wildlife Refuge. The two refuges employ only 10 full time staff, and 
both refuges are highly dependent upon volunteers.
  Each year, people come to our refuges to observe the federally 
threatened Red Knot shorebird, which stops along the Delaware Bay to 
refuel on horseshoe crab eggs along its migration journey. Volunteers 
make sure these visitors have memorable experiences.
  When people can see these pristine habitats and the many species that 
call them home, they are inspired to be good stewards of our planet for 
the enjoyment and benefit of future generations.
  I want to ensure that these opportunities abound, in Delaware and 
around the country. A small annual investment in the refuge system 
volunteer and partnerships program goes a long way. Every $1 
appropriated to coordinate these volunteers translates to $10 worth of 
volunteer services.
  These appropriations also help cut government costs. In fiscal year 
2016, 40,000 volunteers donated 1.4 million hours, with donated time 
equaling that of 649 full-time employees.
  I want to thank Senator Barrasso for cosponsoring this commonsense 
legislation. I look forward to working with him and our colleagues in 
the House to pass the Keep America's Refuges Operational Act and enact 
it into law.
  Thank you.

                          ____________________



