

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 163 (Wednesday, October 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 163 (Wednesday, October 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7948]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   DR. JOHN F. NASH, JR. POST OFFICE

  Mr. RUSSELL. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 2302) to designate the facility of the United States Postal 
Service located at 259 Nassau Street, Suite 2 in Princeton, New Jersey, 
as the ``Dr. John F. Nash, Jr. Post Office''.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 2302

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. DR. JOHN F. NASH, JR. POST OFFICE.

       (a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal 
     Service located at 259 Nassau Street, Suite 2 in Princeton, 
     New Jersey, shall be known and designated as the ``Dr. John 
     F. Nash, Jr. Post Office''.
       (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
     document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
     facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be 
     a reference to the ``Dr. John F. Nash, Jr. Post Office''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Oklahoma (Mr. Russell) and the gentlewoman from New Jersey (Mrs. Watson 
Coleman) each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Oklahoma.


                             General Leave

  Mr. RUSSELL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their 
remarks and include extraneous material on the bill under 
consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Oklahoma?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. RUSSELL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I speak in support of H.R. 2302, introduced by the 
gentlewoman, Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman from New Jersey. The 
bill designates the post office located at 259 Nassau Street, Suite 2, 
in Princeton, New Jersey, as the Dr. John F. Nash, Jr. Post Office.
  John Nash was a brilliant mathematician, publishing groundbreaking 
work in many areas. One of his most famous contributions was to the 
field of game theory, creating what is known as the Nash equilibrium.
  For his achievements, he won a Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences in 
1994, and the Abel Prize from the Norwegian Academy of Science and 
Letters in 2015.
  Mr. Speaker, I look forward to hearing more about Dr. Nash's life 
from the gentlewoman from New Jersey, and I urge my colleagues to 
support the bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I do rise to urge support for my bill, H.R. 2302, which 
would designate the facility of the United States Postal Service 
located at 259 Nassau Street in Princeton, New Jersey, as the Dr. John 
F. Nash, Jr. Post Office.
  As a legendary figure of Princeton University's mathematics 
department, Dr. Nash was famous both for his genius and his life story. 
Born in Bluefield, West Virginia, in 1928, Dr. John Nash was a child 
prodigy who graduated from the Carnegie Institute of Technology at age 
19, with both a bachelor's and a master's degree in mathematics.
  Dr. Nash subsequently received his doctorate in 1950 from Princeton 
University and published a groundbreaking theory of noncooperative 
games later that year, which is now known as the Nash equilibrium.
  His monumental work in mathematics, game theory, economics, and 
evolutionary biology has influenced generations of experts in these 
fields.
  In addition to his academic contributions, Dr. Nash gained worldwide 
acclaim from the 2001 film ``A Beautiful Mind,'' which portrayed his 
vast accomplishments while living with schizophrenia and throughout his 
recovery from mental illness.
  In recognition of his lifelong work, Dr. Nash was awarded a Nobel 
Prize in Economic Sciences in 1994, and the 2015 Abel Prize from the 
Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.
  Tragically, he and his wife, Alicia, were killed in an automobile 
accident in 2015 on their return from receiving the award in Norway.
  Finally, I want to end my remarks by congratulating Ms. Lyla Malloy, 
the student in my district whose essay submission to our post office 
naming competition was chosen out of 84 entries.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge the passage of H.R. 2302 in recognition of Dr. 
Nash's important contributions to our country, and I yield back the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. RUSSELL. Mr. Speaker, I urge the adoption of the bill, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr. Russell) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 2302.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



