

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7221]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




HONORING THE PORTLAND THORNS FC AS THE CHAMPION OF THE NATIONAL WOMEN'S 
                         SOCCER LEAGUE IN 2017

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation be discharged from 
further consideration of S. Res. 318 and the Senate proceed to its 
immediate consideration.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The clerk will report the resolution by title.
  The bill clerk read as follows:

       A resolution (S. Res. 318) honoring the Portland Thorns FC 
     as the champion of the National Women's Soccer League in 
     2017.

  There being no objection, the Senate proceeded to consider the 
resolution.
  Mr. McCONNELL. I further ask unanimous consent that the resolution be 
agreed to; the amendment to the preamble, which is at the desk, be 
agreed to; the preamble, as amended, be agreed to; and the motions to 
reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table with no 
intervening action or debate.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The resolution (S. Res. 318) was agreed to.
  The amendment (No. 1585) was agreed to, as follows:

                    (Purpose: To amend the preamble)

       In the fourth whereas clause of the preamble, strike ``Head 
     Coach, Mark Parsons, and Chief Executive Officer, Merritt 
     Paulson, of the Portland Thorns FC'' and insert ``Chief 
     Executive Officer of the Portland Thorns FC, Merritt 
     Paulson,''.
       Insert after the fourth whereas clause of the preamble the 
     following:
       Whereas the Head Coach of the Portland Thorns FC, Mark 
     Parsons, won the NWSL Championship for the first time;

  The preamble, as amended, was agreed to.
  The resolution with its preamble, as amended, reads as follows:

                              S. Res. 318

       Whereas the Portland Thorns FC won the National Women's 
     Soccer League (referred to in this preamble as the ``NWSL'') 
     Championship on October 14, 2017;
       Whereas the Portland Thorns FC won the NWSL Championship, 
     an event that has been held for 5 years, for the second time 
     by defeating the North Carolina Courage by a score of 1 to 0;
       Whereas Portland Thorns FC midfielder Lindsey Horan scored 
     the only goal in the 2017 NWSL Championship and was named the 
     Most Valuable Player of that Championship;
       Whereas the Chief Executive Officer of the Portland Thorns 
     FC, Merritt Paulson, won the NWSL Championship for the second 
     time;
       Whereas the Head Coach of the Portland Thorns FC, Mark 
     Parsons, won the NWSL Championship for the first time;
       Whereas the Rose City Riveters and the fans of the Portland 
     Thorns FC, who provide the Providence Park venue with spirit 
     and pride, are the best fans in the NWSL;
       Whereas the Portland Thorns FC holds the record for highest 
     average game attendance in the NWSL in 2017 and has held that 
     record in each year since the establishment of the NWSL in 
     2013;
       Whereas the goalkeeper of the Portland Thorns FC, Adrianna 
     Franch, was named the NWSL Goalkeeper of the Year for 2017;
       Whereas the Portland Thorns FC adopted the official State 
     motto of Oregon, ``Alis Volat Propriis'', meaning ``She Flies 
     with Her Own Wings'', to capture the independent spirit of 
     Oregon;
       Whereas the Portland Thorns FC holds community service 
     events to inspire and involve young women and men in the 
     Portland community through science, technology, engineering, 
     mathematics, and environmental education; and
       Whereas the success of the Portland Thorns FC soccer team 
     will broaden an appreciation of athletics in young people and 
     encourage Oregonians to engage in their communities: Now, 
     therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) honors the Portland Thorns FC as the 2017 champion of 
     the National Women's Soccer League;
       (2) recognizes the outstanding achievement of the players, 
     ownership, and staff of the Portland Thorns FC; and
       (3) respectfully requests that the Secretary of the Senate 
     transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to--
       (A) Merritt Paulson, the Chief Executive Officer of the 
     Portland Thorns FC;
       (B) Gavin Wilkinson, the General Manager of the Portland 
     Thorns FC; and
       (C) Mark Parsons, the Head Coach of the Portland Thorns FC.

                          ____________________



