

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S8259-S8260]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first

[[Page S8260]]

and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. SCHATZ:
       S. 2260. A bill to establish and fund an Opioids and STOP 
     Initiative to expand, intensify, and coordinate fundamental, 
     translational, and clinical research of the National 
     Institutes of Health with respect to opioid abuse, the 
     understanding of pain, and the discovery and development of 
     safer and more effective treatments and preventive 
     interventions for pain; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. 
             Graham, Ms. Harris, Ms. Collins, and Mr. Heinrich):
       S. 2261. A bill to protect the administration of Federal 
     elections against cybersecurity threats; to the Committee on 
     Rules and Administration.
           By Mrs. McCASKILL (for herself, Mr. Rubio, and Ms. 
             Hassan):
       S. 2262. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to establish in the Department of Homeland Security a board 
     to coordinate and integrate departmental intelligence and 
     activities and policy related to counterterrorism, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. DONNELLY (for himself and Mr. Young):
       S. 2263. A bill to amend the Agricultural Act of 2014 to 
     require base acres planted to fruits, vegetables, and wild 
     rice to be considered planted to a covered commodity for 
     purposes of any recalculation of base acres; to the Committee 
     on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. REED (for himself and Mr. Whitehouse):
       S. 2264. A bill to amend the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
     Conservation and Management Act to add Rhode Island to the 
     Mid-Atlantic Fishery Management Council, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Rubio, Mr. 
             Perdue, Mr. Menendez, Mrs. Capito, and Mr. Durbin):
       S. 2265. A bill to promote democracy and the rule of law in 
     Nicaragua, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and Mr. Cornyn):
       S. 2266. A bill to authorize the Office on Violence Against 
     Women to improve the handling of crimes of domestic violence, 
     dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking by 
     incorporating a trauma-informed approach into the initial 
     response to and investigation of such crimes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FRANKEN:
       S. 2267. A bill to amend title 11, United States Code, to 
     prioritize certain pension claims in bankruptcy, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr. Perdue, Mr. Kaine, Mr. 
             Brown, and Ms. Harris):
       S. 2268. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to modify certain provisions relating to the capital 
     financing of historically Black colleges and universities; to 
     the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Mr. Isakson):
       S. 2269. A bill to reauthorize the Global Food Security Act 
     of 2016 for 5 additional years; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Ms. Harris, Mr. Merkley, 
             Ms. Klobuchar, Ms. Murkowski, and Ms. Baldwin):
       S. 2270. A bill to make improvements to the account for the 
     State response to the opioid abuse crisis to improve tribal 
     health; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. REED (for himself, Ms. Collins, Mr. Cochran, 
             Mrs. Gillibrand, and Ms. Murkowski):
       S. 2271. A bill to reauthorize the Museum and Library 
     Services Act; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
     and Pensions.
           By Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Ms. Warren, Mr. Blumenthal, 
             and Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 2272. A bill to amend the Revised Statutes to grant 
     State attorneys general the ability to issue subpoenas to 
     investigate suspected violations of State laws that are 
     applicable to national banks; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself and Ms. Murkowski):
       S. 2273. A bill to extend the period during which vessels 
     that are shorter than 79 feet in length and fishing vessels 
     are not required to have a permit for discharges incidental 
     to the normal operation of the vessel; considered and passed.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Hirono, 
             Mr. Carper, Mr. Markey, Mr. Schatz, Mrs. Gillibrand, 
             Ms. Hassan, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Warner, Mr. 
             Leahy, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Udall, Mrs. Murray, Mr. 
             Brown, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Kaine, Ms. 
             Warren, and Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 2274. A bill to provide for the compensation of Federal 
     employees affected by lapses in appropriations; read the 
     first time.
           By Mr. CASSIDY:
       S.J. Res. 51. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States relative to limiting 
     the number of terms that a Member of Congress may serve; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



