

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9743-H9744]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM

  (Mr. McCARTHY asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute.)
  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today for the purpose of making a 
scheduling announcement.
  Mr. Speaker, I first want to thank all the Members for their 
flexibility in coming back to town this past Monday. As such, Members 
are advised that votes are no longer expected in the House tomorrow, 
Friday, December 8.
  Members are further advised to be prepared for the House to be in 
session the week of December 18. First votes of that week will be 
expected at 6:30 p.m. on Monday, December 18.
  We all know we have important work to do, including passing the 
historic Tax Cuts and Jobs Act for the American people. I think that 
will be an excellent Christmas present.

[[Page H9744]]

  If there are any further changes to our schedule, I will be sure to 
let all Members know.
  Mr. HOYER. Will the gentleman yield?
  Mr. McCARTHY. I yield to the gentleman from Maryland.
  Mr. HOYER. I thank the majority leader for yielding.
  Normally, of course, we would have a scheduling discussion tomorrow 
at the end of business, but in light of the fact that we are not 
meeting tomorrow, we will not have that colloquy.
  Mr. Speaker, can the leader give us some indication of what might be 
considered next week? As we know, there are numerous items that need to 
be resolved before we leave here this year, and we need to obviously 
have some BCA, Budget Control Act, numbers arrived at so that the 
Appropriations Committee can move forward either on an omnibus or 
appropriations bills. We need to do flood insurance. We need to do FISA 
section 702. We need to do, obviously, the Children's Health Insurance 
Program, and other matters.
  Mr. Speaker, can the leader, who has just said that we will be in--is 
he anticipating 4 days next week? Four days next week, and presumably 4 
days or 5 days the following week? So let's say we have 9 legislative 
days.
  Mr. Speaker, can the leader give us some idea of how we might 
accomplish the work that needs to be done in that timeframe?
  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I will miss the colloquy tomorrow. I 
always look forward to speaking with my friend.
  Mr. Speaker, as the gentleman knows, the Rules Committee has met, so 
we will see a Financial Services bill that they met on. Members will 
also get a list of all the suspensions. That will be by close of 
business tomorrow.
  But the gentleman is right. There is a lot of work to be done. We 
have passed CHIP going forward. As the gentleman knows, in this bill 
that we just voted on, for those who voted yes, it continues funding 
for them for the rest of this year.
  Mr. Speaker, as the gentleman knows, this House has passed all 12 
appropriations bills, but we have more work to get done.
  Knowing my friend is concerned, coming from the Appropriations 
Committee as well, I would hope you join with us. We would like to see 
the Senate take some actions. I know leadership from both sides of the 
aisle has just visited with the President. I hope we can come to an 
agreement so we can finish this out.
  I also hope the gentleman would join with me in encouraging the 
Senate, not just on the appropriations bills, but the 352 bills that we 
have out of this House sitting over there.
  Mr. Speaker, the part that the American people must know, most of 
those bills have very broad bipartisan support.
  I am looking forward to a busy 9 days. It will not come up next week, 
but if it could, I would bring it up as soon as we come out of 
conference because I do believe the American people are waiting for the 
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act to continue what we have gone through.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



