

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 149 (Thursday, September 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 149 (Thursday, September 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S5747-S5748]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  SENATE RESOLUTION 258--DESIGNATING THE WEEK BEGINNING SEPTEMBER 10, 
  2017, AS ``NATIONAL DIRECT SUPPORT PROFESSIONALS RECOGNITION WEEK''

  Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Ms. Collins, Mr. Brown, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. 
Markey, Mr. Portman, Mr. King, Ms. Warren, Mr. Menendez, and Ms. 
Klobuchar) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and 
agreed to:

                              S. Res. 258

       Whereas direct support professionals, including direct care 
     workers, personal assistants, personal attendants, in-home 
     support workers, and paraprofessionals, are key to providing 
     publicly funded, long-term support and services for millions 
     of individuals with disabilities;
       Whereas direct support professionals provide essential 
     support to help keep individuals with disabilities connected 
     to their families, friends, and communities so as to avoid 
     more costly institutional care;
       Whereas direct support professionals support individuals 
     with disabilities by helping those individuals make person-
     centered choices that lead to meaningful, productive lives;

[[Page S5748]]

       Whereas direct support professionals must build close, 
     respectful, and trusted relationships with individuals with 
     disabilities;
       Whereas direct support professionals provide a broad range 
     of individualized support to individuals with disabilities, 
     including--
       (1) assisting with the preparation of meals;
       (2) helping with medication;
       (3) assisting with bathing, dressing, and other aspects of 
     daily living;
       (4) assisting with access to their environment;
       (5) providing transportation to school, work, religious, 
     and recreational activities; and
       (6) helping with general daily affairs, such as assisting 
     with financial matters, medical appointments, and personal 
     interests;
       Whereas the participation of direct support professionals 
     in medical care planning is critical to the successful 
     transition of individuals from medical events to post-acute 
     care and long-term support and services;
       Whereas there is a documented critical and increasing 
     shortage of direct support professionals throughout the 
     United States;
       Whereas direct support professionals are a critical element 
     in supporting individuals who are receiving health care 
     services for severe chronic health conditions and individuals 
     with functional limitations;
       Whereas many direct support professionals are the primary 
     financial providers for their families;
       Whereas direct support professionals are hardworking, 
     taxpaying citizens who provide an important service to people 
     with disabilities in the United States, yet many continue to 
     earn low wages, receive inadequate benefits, and have limited 
     opportunities for advancement, resulting in high turnover and 
     vacancy rates that adversely affect the quality of support, 
     safety, and health of individuals with disabilities;
       Whereas the Supreme Court of the United States, in Olmstead 
     v. L.C. by Zimring, 527 U.S. 581 (June 22, 1999)--
       (1) recognized the importance of the deinstitutionalization 
     of, and community-based services for, individuals with 
     disabilities; and
       (2) held that, under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 
     1990 (42 U.S. 12101 et seq.), a State must provide community-
     based services to persons with intellectual and developmental 
     disabilities if--
          (A) the community-based services are appropriate;
          (B) the affected person does not oppose receiving the 
     community-based services; and
          (C) the community-based services can be reasonably 
     accommodated after the community has taken into account the 
     resources available to the State and the needs of other 
     individuals with disabilities in the State; and
       Whereas, in 2017, the majority of direct support 
     professionals are employed in home- and community-based 
     settings and that trend will increase over the next decade: 
     Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) designates the week beginning September 10, 2017, as 
     ``National Direct Support Professionals Recognition Week'';
       (2) recognizes the dedication and vital role of direct 
     support professionals in enhancing the lives of individuals 
     with disabilities of all ages;
       (3) appreciates the contribution of direct support 
     professionals in supporting individuals with disabilities and 
     their families in the United States;
       (4) commends direct support professionals for being 
     integral to the provision of long-term support and services 
     for individuals with disabilities;
       (5) encourages the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the 
     Department of Labor to collect data specific to direct 
     support professionals; and
       (6) finds that the successful implementation of the public 
     policies affecting individuals with disabilities in the 
     United States depends on the dedication of direct support 
     professionals.
  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I rise today with my colleagues Senators 
Collins, Brown, Blumenthal, Markey, Portman, King, Warren, Menendez, 
and Klobuchar to recognize the week beginning September 10th, 2017--
this week--as National Direct Support Professionals Recognition Week. 
The Senate has passed a similar resolution for the past nine years. 
Direct Support Professionals are an invaluable part of our Nation's 
health care system, caring for the most vulnerable Americans, including 
the chronically ill, seniors, and those living with a disability. With 
the help of Direct Support Professionals, these individuals can perform 
daily activities that many people take for granted, such as eating, 
bathing, dressing, and leaving the house. The work of Direct Support 
Professionals ensures that these individuals can be active participants 
in their communities.
  In our Country, we are incredibly fortunate to have millions of 
service-oriented Americans who are willing to rise to the task of 
becoming a Direct Support Professional. According to the Bureau of 
Labor Statistics, the employment of DSPs is projected to grow by an 
average of 26 percent from 2014 to 2024, compared to a 7 percent 
average growth rate for all occupations during that period. 
Unfortunately, direct support professionals are often forced to leave 
the jobs they love due to low wages and excessive, difficult, work 
hours. Many Direct Support Professionals rely on public benefits, and 
some must work multiple jobs in order to provide for themselves and 
their families. Now, more than ever, it is imperative that we work to 
ensure that these hard-working individuals have the income and 
emotional support they need and deserve.
  I urge my colleagues to join me in expressing appreciation for the 
critically important work of our Country's Direct Support 
Professionals, in thanking them for their commitment and dedication, 
and in supporting the resolution designating the week beginning 
September 10, 2017, as National Direct Support Professionals 
Recognition Week.

                          ____________________



