

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 173 (Thursday, October 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6846-S6847]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                TRIBUTE TO MAJOR GENERAL GARY L. SAYLER

 Mr. CRAPO. Madam President, today, together with my colleague 
Senator Jim Risch, I wish to recognize the service of MG Gary L. Sayler 
as he retires from leading the Idaho National Guard this month.
  With more than 40 years of his distinguished 45-year military career 
dedicated to the Idaho National Guard, Major General Sayler has served 
Idaho in a variety of leadership capacities, including 7 years as 
Idaho's adjutant general. Under Major General Sayler's direction as 
commander, the 124th Fighter Wing played vital roles in numerous 
overseas missions, including Operation Provide Comfort in 1994, 
Operation Allied Force in 1999, and Operation Iraqi Freedom in 2003 and 
2004. He subsequently served as assistant adjutant general from 2004 to 
2010 before being appointed as adjutant general for the Idaho National 
Guard in 2010, during the fighter wing's ongoing missions in the Middle 
East in Operation Iraqi Freedom, Operation Enduring Freedom, Operation 
Inherent Resolve, and Operation Freedom's Sentinel. The 124th Fighter 
Wing has received numerous accolades under his steady guidance. These 
include the prestigious Spaatz Trophy in 2016 and again in 2017; the 
Governor's Outstanding Unit Award; and the U.S. Air Force Outstanding 
Unit Award.
  Major General Sayler has built on his extensive experience to lead 
with practical knowledge. His educational background includes a 
bachelor of science in history and education at North Dakota State 
University in 1971 and later courses at the Air Command and Staff 
College, Weapons School, and Air War College. Major General Sayler 
began his first assignment in the U.S. Air Force in Thailand, flying 
combat missions in Southeast Asia before joining the Idaho Air National 
Guard in 1977 as a weapons systems officer for the 124th Tactical 
Reconnaissance Group. With a master navigator rating, he has extensive 
experience flying multiple aircrafts and has logged more than 4,100 
flight hours. These include 392 combat hours that also account for his 
combat missions flying the F4-G over Iraq during Operations Southern 
Watch and Provide Comfort. His promotions and list of major awards and 
decorations that he has earned for his outstanding service are 
extensive and include the Legion of Merit, the Meritorious Service 
Medal, and the Air Medal with silver oakleaf cluster.
  Based on these accomplishments, Major General Sayler has provided 
reasoned and experienced council as we have worked together to address 
the needs of the Idaho National Guard, including protecting and 
advancing the flying mission at Gowen Field as an exemplary force 
within the National Guard for generations to come. While visionary in 
his goals for the Idaho National Guard, a hallmark of Major General 
Sayler's leadership has been his high regard for the servicemembers he 
leads and their families. In addition to the attention and support he 
has devoted to Idaho guardsmen and their families, Major General Sayler 
has also been instrumental in forging enduring relationships with the 
local communities and Native Tribes undergirding Gowen Field. These 
bonds will likely propel the Idaho National Guard and Idaho communities 
forward for years to come.

[[Page S6847]]

  We congratulate Major General Sayler on a distinguished and exemplary 
career serving our Nation and leading the Idaho National Guard. Idaho 
has benefited greatly from his steady, astute leadership. We wish him 
and his family the very best and thank him for his dedicated service to 
Idaho and our Nation.

                          ____________________



