

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 194 (Wednesday, November 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 194 (Wednesday, November 29, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7405-S7406]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 414

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 414, a bill to 
promote conservation, improve public land management, and provide for 
sensible development in Pershing County, Nevada, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1027

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono), the Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) and the Senator 
from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) were added as cosponsors of S. 1027, a 
bill to extend the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-
Determination Act of 2000.


                                S. 1161

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1161, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to eliminate copayments by the 
Department of Veterans Affairs for medicines relating to preventative 
health services, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1256

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Michigan

[[Page S7406]]

(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1256, a bill to award a 
Congressional Gold Medal to the 23d Headquarters, Special Troops and 
the 3133d Signal Service Company in recognition of their unique and 
distinguished service as a ``Ghost Army'' that conducted deception 
operations in Europe during World War II.


                                S. 1591

  At the request of Mr. Van Hollen, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1591, a 
bill to impose sanctions with respect to the Democratic People's 
Republic of Korea, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1806

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1806, a bill to amend the 
Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 and the Head Start 
Act to promote child care and early learning, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1911

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1911, a bill to amend the 
Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to transfer certain 
funds to the 1974 United Mine Workers of America Pension Plan, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2098

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2098, a bill to modernize and 
strengthen the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States to 
more effectively guard against the risk to the national security of the 
United States posed by certain types of foreign investment, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2101

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2101, a bill to award a 
Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the crew of the USS 
Indianapolis, in recognition of their perseverance, bravery, and 
service to the United States.


                                S. 2135

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) and the Senator from Wisconsin (Mr. Johnson) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2135, a bill to enforce current law regarding the 
National Instant Criminal Background Check System.


                                S. 2143

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the names of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 2143, a bill to amend the National Labor Relations 
Act to strengthen protections for employees wishing to advocate for 
improved wages, hours, or other terms or conditions of employment, to 
expand coverage under such Act, to provide a process for achieving 
initial collective bargaining agreements, and to provide for stronger 
remedies for interference with these rights, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2159

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy), the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin) and 
the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Udall) were added as cosponsors of S. 
2159, a bill to require covered harassment and covered discrimination 
awareness and prevention training for Members, officers, employees, 
interns, fellows, and detailees of Congress within 30 days of 
employment and annually thereafter, to require a biennial climate 
survey of Congress, to amend the enforcement process under the Office 
of Congressional Workplace Rights for covered harassment and covered 
discrimination complaints, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 138

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 138, a 
resolution honoring National Former Prisoner of War Recognition Day on 
April 9, 2017, and commemorating the 75th anniversary of the fall of 
Bataan.


                              S. RES. 220

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 220, a resolution 
expressing solidarity with Falun Gong practitioners who have lost 
lives, freedoms, and rights for adhering to their beliefs and practices 
and condemning the practice of non-consenting organ harvesting, and for 
other purposes.


                              S. RES. 319

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 319, a 
resolution supporting the goals, activities, and ideals of Prematurity 
Awareness Month.

                          ____________________



