

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 200 (Thursday, December 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9732-H9739]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018


                             General Leave

  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all 
Members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their 
remarks and include extraneous material in consideration of H.J. Res. 
123.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Bacon). Is there objection to the 
request of the gentleman from New Jersey?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 647, I 
call up the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 123) making further continuing 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018, and for other purposes, and ask 
for its immediate consideration.
  The Clerk read the title of the joint resolution.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 647, the joint 
resolution is considered read.
  The text of the joint resolution is as follows:

                             H.J. Res. 123

       Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
     United States of America in Congress assembled,

        DIVISION A--FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018

     SEC. 101. FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS.

       The Continuing Appropriations Act, 2018 (division D of 
     Public Law 115-56) is amended by striking the date specified 
     in section 106(3) and inserting ``December 22, 2017''.
       This division may be cited as the ``Further Continuing 
     Appropriations Act, 2018''.

   DIVISION B--CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM (CHIP) ALLOCATION 
                      REDISTRIBUTION SPECIAL RULE

     SEC. 201. CHIP ALLOCATION REDISTRIBUTION SPECIAL RULE FOR 
                   CERTAIN SHORTFALL STATES DURING FIRST QUARTER 
                   OF FISCAL YEAR 2018.

       Section 2104(f)(2) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
     1397dd(f)(2)) is amended--
       (1) by amending subparagraph (B) to read as follows:
       ``(B) Determination of redistributed amounts if 
     insufficient amounts available.--
       ``(i) Proration rule.--Subject to clause (ii), if the 
     amounts available for redistribution under paragraph (1) for 
     a fiscal year are less than the total amounts of the 
     estimated shortfalls determined for the year under 
     subparagraph (A), the amount to be redistributed under such 
     paragraph for each shortfall State shall be reduced 
     proportionally.
       ``(ii) Special rule for first quarter of fiscal year 
     2018.--

       ``(I) In general.--For the period beginning on October 1, 
     2017, and ending December 31, 2017, with respect to any 
     amounts available for redistribution under paragraph (1) for 
     fiscal year 2018, the Secretary shall redistribute under such 
     paragraph such amounts to each emergency shortfall State (as 
     defined in subclause (II)) in such amount as is equal to the 
     amount of the shortfall described in subclause (II) for such 
     State and period (as may be adjusted under subparagraph (C)) 
     before the Secretary may redistribute such amounts to any 
     shortfall State that is not an emergency shortfall State. In 
     the case of any amounts redistributed under this subclause to 
     a State that is not an emergency shortfall State, such 
     amounts shall be determined in accordance with clause (i).
       ``(II) Emergency shortfall state defined.--For purposes of 
     this clause, the term `emergency shortfall State' means, with 
     respect to the period beginning October 1, 2017, and ending 
     December 31, 2017, a shortfall State for which the Secretary 
     estimates, in accordance with subparagraph (A) (unless 
     otherwise specified in this subclause), that the projected 
     expenditures under the State child health plan and under 
     section 2105(g) (calculated as if the reference under section 
     2105(g)(4)(A) to `2017' were a reference to `2018' and 
     insofar as the allotments are available to the State under 
     this subsection or subsection (e) or (m)) for such period 
     will exceed the sum of the amounts described in clauses (i) 
     through (iii) of subparagraph (A) for such period, including 
     after application of any amount redistributed under paragraph 
     (1) before such date of enactment to such State. A shortfall 
     State may be an emergency shortfall State under the previous 
     sentence without regard to whether any amounts were 
     redistributed before such date of enactment to such State 
     under paragraph (1) for fiscal year 2018.
       ``(III) Application of qualifying state option.--During the 
     period described in subclause (I), section 2105(g)(4) shall 
     apply to a qualifying State (as defined in section 
     2105(g)(2)) as if under section 2105(g)(4)--

       ``(aa) the reference to `2017' were a reference to `2018'; 
     and
       ``(bb) the reference to `under subsections (e) and (m) of 
     such section' were a reference to `under subsections (e), 
     (f), and (m) of such section'.''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
       ``(D) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this paragraph may 
     be construed as preventing a commonwealth or territory 
     described in subsection (c)(3) from being treated as a 
     shortfall State or an emergency shortfall State.''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. 
Frelinghuysen) and the gentlewoman from New York (Mrs. Lowey) each will 
control 30 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New Jersey.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  I rise today to present H.J. Res. 123, a continuing resolution that 
maintains funding for Federal Government operations and prevents a 
shutdown.
  Current funding legislation expires tomorrow, Friday, December 8. 
Congress must act now to prevent a government shutdown and preserve 
vital Federal programs that Americans rely on. This action is critical 
to our Nation's stability, our national security, our economic health, 
and the well-being of the American people.
  This simple, clean extension of funding provides fiscal year 2018 
funding for government programs through December 22, an additional 2 
weeks, and will allow time for leadership to reach a deal on overall 
topline spending levels for the 2018 fiscal year.

                              {time}  1430

  I would note that the executive branch supports adoption of this 
continuing resolution. Yesterday's Statement of Administration Policy 
says: ``This legislation funds the Federal Government at current 
spending levels without unnecessary extraneous provisions.''
  It concludes that his advisers would recommend that the President 
sign the bill into law.
  Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record the December 6 Statement of 
Administration Policy regarding H.J. Res. 123.

                   Statement of Administration Policy


   h.j. res. 123--further continuing appropriations act, 2018--rep. 
                          frelinghuysen, r-nj

       The Administration supports House passage of H.J. Res. 123, 
     the Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2018.
       This legislation funds the Federal Government at current 
     spending levels without unnecessary extraneous provisions 
     through December 22, 2017, while the Congress continues to 
     work on a longer-term funding agreement. The legislation also 
     includes language to ensure that States and Territories have 
     adequate funding for the Children's Health Insurance Program 
     (CHIP) through December.
       The Administration believes that funding for national 
     security, including for our military, to secure the Southern 
     Border, and to enhance missile defense capabilities, must be 
     prioritized in a long-term funding agreement, and will 
     continue working with the Congress to achieve that goal.
       If H.J. Res. 123 was presented to the President in its 
     current form, his advisors would recommend that he sign the 
     bill into law.

  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, the House has completed our 
appropriations work over 80 days ago, passing all 12 bills before the 
end of the last fiscal year for the first time in nearly a decade. This 
included critical, important funding for national defense and other 
important matters.
  Unfortunately, the Appropriations Committee cannot proceed without an 
agreement with the Senate on overall funding levels. The reality is 
that we are running into a deadline this week, and this resolution is 
our best and only option at this time.
  Once a broader budget agreement has been reached, which I hope will 
be soon, the committee will continue its work to complete final 
negotiations with the Senate on all 12 of the regular appropriations 
bills that will fully fund the Federal Government through September of 
next year.

[[Page H9733]]

  Our committee is also moving quickly to act on a third emergency 
supplemental funding bill to help our communities across the Nation 
recover from recent major disasters.
  In the meantime, Congress must do its job and pass the continuing 
resolution and then another one into the new year to keep the 
government open and ensure that all important Federal services are 
available to all Americans.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this necessary and responsible 
legislation, and I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  It is extremely regrettable that we find ourselves here today. 
Democrats have said all year that there must be a deal to raise 
statutory budget caps in a manner that allows responsible investments 
in both defense and nondefense priorities, because both are critical to 
our continued safety, security, and prosperity.
  The majority failed to engage all year, choosing instead to pass 
partisan appropriation bills that can never be signed into law.
  More than 2 months ago, President Trump and Democratic congressional 
leaders struck an agreement to avoid a government shutdown and buy time 
for negotiations on new spending caps that would make it possible to 
enact a responsible, bipartisan full-year spending law. Precious little 
has been accomplished since then.
  Now here we are again with the majority asking support for a 2-week 
stopgap continuing resolution. So I ask the majority: What do you 
expect to accomplish in the next 2 weeks that we have been unable to 
accomplish in the last 2 months? I want to repeat that. I would really 
like to know what you expect to accomplish in the next 2 weeks, when we 
haven't been able to accomplish anything in the last 2 months.
  The rationale to support a short-term stopgap continuing resolution 
is that the parties are engaged in good faith negotiations to develop a 
responsible, bipartisan spending package; negotiations are on a 
positive trajectory and additional time is simply needed to seal a 
deal. Can anyone in this Chamber claim that this is the case today?
  The President continues to irresponsibly threaten a government 
shutdown and launch ad hominem attacks. Majority leadership is playing 
games with the contents of this and future continuing resolutions. 
Negotiations on new spending caps for defense and nondefense 
investments are stalled.
  The majority is grasping for excuses as to why they have failed to 
protect 700,000 young Americans from deportation, reauthorize the 
Children's Health Insurance Program, or move expeditiously on critical 
disaster assistance.
  Is there any evidence whatsoever that this majority intends to 
fulfill these vital responsibilities to the American people?
  Given these failures, I believe it is incumbent on Members of 
Congress to say enough is enough. The American people are sick of the 
games. They want results.
  It is time for the Republican leadership and President Trump to get 
serious, engage with Democrats. We stand ready and willing to help 
develop a framework for a responsible, bipartisan spending agreement 
and to negotiate the details of a full year's spending package.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Kentucky (Mr. Rogers), my colleague, and the distinguished 
chairman of the State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
Subcommittee.
  Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding me time.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in full support of the second fiscal year 
2018 continuing resolution this year, which will fund the Federal 
Government through December 22 of this year.
  This bill is a necessary measure to continue vital government 
programs and services. It also prevents uncertainty and harm in a 
shutdown.
  This year, the committee worked at a historic pace to produce and 
then pass all 12 bills to fund the government. Chairman Frelinghuysen 
should be recognized for this feat of leadership. It is important that 
we eventually send these bills to the President's desk.
  As chairman of the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, I want 
to highlight that the funding provided in our bill supports continued 
leadership by the U.S. and advances our national security and economic 
interests. This funding is critical to addressing the many challenges 
that we face around the world.
  Mr. Speaker, while CRs are never our preferred course of action, the 
bill before us today will give us more time to complete our work with 
the Senate and put together a final bill that will support the American 
people. Our current continuing resolution expires tomorrow, so we must 
act today.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the CR.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Ohio (Ms. Kaptur), the ranking member of the Energy and Water 
Development, and Related Agencies Subcommittee.

  Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member, Congresswoman 
Lowey from New York, for the phenomenal job that she has done this 
year, and commend Chairman Frelinghuysen for trying to herd cattle on a 
very vast range.
  Mr. Speaker, here we are again, mere hours away from a needless 
shutdown, a cliff created by the Republican majority.
  Already we are 3 months into the 2018 fiscal year, and Congress is no 
closer to finalizing one of our chief constitutional responsibilities, 
and that is funding the departments of our Nation to do their jobs.
  For a nation at war, the Department of Defense, the largest 
Department in this bill, can't let contracts because of this adolescent 
dallying by Congress.
  I rise with frustration today, as the Appropriations Committee's 
subcommittees did their job over the last year. They toiled away for 
months, chipping away in each subcommittee bill, but that proved to be 
a fruitless effort since we had no agreed upon budget caps within which 
to make those decisions, because the Republican majority produced no 
budget.
  There is simply no good reason why we are here again kicking 
decisions down the road, and for 2 weeks. Let me remind my colleagues, 
we were over 7 months late last fiscal year before we fully funded our 
government.
  This fits and starts, fits and starts surely is not what the American 
people deserve. For example, we know a million people, our fellow 
citizens in Puerto Rico, still don't have energy and power, and vast 
numbers lack access to fresh drinking water. We need that FEMA budget 
certain so contracts can be let for 2018. Federal funding for the 
Children's Health Insurance Program covering more than 220,000 children 
in Ohio expired 68 days ago.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield an additional 1 minute to the 
gentlewoman from Ohio.
  Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, this disruption to those responsible for managing 
healthcare adds an unnecessary burden under the circumstances they 
confront daily. Many States are now preparing to shut down their CHIP 
program in case Congress doesn't act. How is that for a Christmas or 
Hanukkah present to the children of America?
  The Republican majority's priorities are out of line, and no 
leadership on budgetary caps, no leadership on working with Democrats 
to find common ground on funding priorities, no leadership to finalize 
government funding for the entire 2018 fiscal year, which began 3 
months ago. Unacceptable.
  Instead, Republicans choose to avoid doing what is critical. Rather 
than pass a tax bill that rewards the wealthiest in our country and 
wreaks havoc on America's hardworking middle class families, they ought 
to do the dutiful work of managing the funds to operate the departments 
that serve the people of the United States. The American people are 
worried, Mr. Speaker, and the majority has abdicated their leadership.
  I urge my colleagues to keep their powder dry on any hasty vote on 
this bill, and demand the majority come to the table to finalize the 
fiscal year 2018 spending plan.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Alabama (Mr. Aderholt), the chairman of the Agriculture, Rural 
Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Subcommittee on Appropriations.

[[Page H9734]]

  

  Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise also in support of H.J. Res. 123, which obviously 
would extend funding for the Federal Government for the next 2 weeks.
  We have had a highly condensed schedule this year, but the 
Appropriations Committee has made tremendous progress in an open and 
very deliberative process as we have moved forward over the last 
several months.
  As an example, the Subcommittee on Agricultural Appropriations, which 
I have the privilege to chair, received input from over 350 individual 
Members, and we produced our bill in less than 2 months.
  Just a few months ago, as most of my colleagues here in the House 
know, the House took up and we passed all 12 appropriation bills. The 
chairman and the leadership delivered on the promise that they would do 
so.
  Now we are coming to the end of the year; there are final 
negotiations to be done. I and my colleagues agree that a CR is not the 
best option; however, I would ask my colleagues to support this 
resolution to ensure that we have basic services that continue for our 
constituents until we have the final time to complete our work.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Florida (Ms. Wasserman Schultz), the ranking member of the Military 
Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Subcommittee.
  Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for 
yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this continuing 
resolution, which is yet again a complete abdication of our 
responsibilities.
  Instead of adopting fully funded appropriations bills or an omnibus 
with an actual chance of passing this Congress, we remain mired in this 
unbreakable habit of passing continuing resolutions. This not only 
creates needless legislative and economic uncertainty, it costs the 
government, especially our military, billions in wasted taxpayer 
dollars. Moreover, this abdication reflects the Republican leadership's 
complete abandonment of our values and the needs of our constituents.
  For one, we have yet to pass the Dream Act. Despite widespread 
support nationally and with growing fear of deportations, this Congress 
has ignored the 122 DREAMers who lose their protected status every day. 
These are Americans by any definition, and this is their home. I will 
not stand by as this President cruelly threatens to send these brave 
young people back to countries about which they have no memory.
  When will this body fully address the horrific disasters that have 
ravaged Florida, Texas, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and 
California? Countless communities, including my own, are anxiously 
awaiting vital recovery assistance that only the Federal Government can 
provide. These abdications are simply immoral. It doesn't end there.
  Congress has failed to renew the Children's Health Insurance Program. 
States and families across America are scrambling to find replacement 
funds and healthcare alternatives for their children.

                              {time}  1445

  When did CHIP and protecting the health of our children become a 
partisan issue?
  My Republican colleagues want to add more than $1 trillion to the 
deficit for tax cuts for big corporations and the top 1 percent, while 
they are at it; but then they say we can't afford to spend a fraction 
of that on healthcare for children?
  These priorities are backward and morally indefensible.
  Instead of protecting Americans from the scourge of gun violence, 
Republicans are weakening our already feeble gun laws by passing more 
legislation that ensures more deadly gun violence in our towns and 
cities.
  We need to pass an omnibus budget that doesn't threaten programs for 
our veterans and children or make drastic cuts to the Medicare and 
Medicaid programs that our seniors rely upon.
  Instead of handing massive tax cuts to millionaires and powerful 
corporations, we should pass a budget that supports education, expands 
women's health, and provides real economic relief to the middle class.
  In short, we have to break this body's obsession with promoting the 
interests of the well-off and special interests, and ignoring the needs 
of children, DREAMers, seniors, and the middle class.
  This continuing resolution does nothing more than provide another 
short-term fix for the Republican leadership's unhealthy addiction. It 
is abominable, it is irresponsible, and we should set it aside and 
focus on making long-term decisions for the American people.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from Texas (Ms. Granger), the chairwoman of the Appropriations 
Subcommittee on Defense.
  Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this continuing 
resolution.
  Our most solemn responsibility as Members of Congress is to provide 
for our Nation's security.
  The world is more dangerous and unstable than at any time in recent 
history. The threat from North Korea grows each day. Russia continues 
to create instability in Ukraine, the Baltics, and the Balkans. Chinese 
is militarizing the South China Sea and modernizing their military at 
an alarming pace.
  Meanwhile, ISIS and al-Qaida continue to spread their perverted 
version of Islam across Europe, Africa, Asia, and the Middle East.
  We must send a clear message to our adversaries that our military is 
prepared to confront anyone who threatens us at any time.
  A shutdown in the Department of Defense will only embolden our 
adversaries and threaten our national security. Our military needs 
stable, predictable, and timely funding to ensure it is prepared to 
meet the threats we face now and in the future.
  Members demonstrated their commitment to rebuilding our military this 
past summer by passing the Make America Secure Appropriations Act, 
which included the defense appropriations bill for fiscal year 2018. 
Only a budget agreement that gives our men and women in uniform the 
funding they need and removes the threat of sequestration will provide 
them that certainty.
  The House must pass this continuing resolution to allow time for an 
agreement to be reached that will fully fund our Nation's defense. 
Shutting down the government is not an option.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to support this very important 
legislation.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Connecticut (Ms. DeLauro), the ranking member of the Labor, Health and 
Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Subcommittee.
  Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I rise to comment on this continuing 
resolution and on the past year of this Congress.
  The biggest economic challenge of our time is that people are in jobs 
that do not pay them enough to live on. Wages are not keeping up with 
rising costs for healthcare, childcare, and housing. Too many families 
struggle to make ends meet, let alone put money in a college fund or go 
on vacation. That is what we should be focused on. We ought to be 
creating jobs and raising wages.
  Yet, for the first 9 months of this year, this Congress attempted 
again and again to repeal the Affordable Care Act, which would have 
raised premiums and deductibles, thrown millions off insurance, and 
made healthcare unaffordable.
  Then we spent our entire fall on the Republican tax scam. Big 
corporations, millionaires, billionaires write the rules to make this 
government work for them, and Republicans are their comrades-in-arms in 
rigging the game against the middle class.
  Just a few days ago, Senator Orrin Hatch said: ``I have a rough time 
wanting to spend billions and billions and trillions of dollars to help 
people who won't help themselves, won't lift a finger, and expect the 
Federal Government to do everything.''
  Get out of the Senate Chamber. Understand what people's lives are 
about today. Walk in their shoes and understand their struggles.
  But this is the ugly truth of the Republican tax bill. This is what 
the vote was about. These are their values on display.

[[Page H9735]]

  This tax scam is going to raise the deficit, and the Republicans will 
use it as an excuse to cut vital social safety net programs: Medicare, 
Medicaid, Social Security, LIHEAP, TANF, education programs, SNAP, food 
stamps.
  Right now, funding is insufficient to provide childcare assistance to 
all who are eligible; yet, if we pass this tax bill, we will be under 
intense pressure to cut this assistance. That is what they want to do. 
This is wrong.
  Now we are punting one of our core obligations as a Congress: funding 
our government programs.
  This is unacceptable. It is a disturbing pattern and it is 
unsustainable. We should be negotiating spending levels for 2018.
  The majority can never again speak about regular order. This year has 
been one partisan attempt after another to harm working class and 
middle class Americans so that they could fulfill their campaign 
promises.

  We have no budget agreement. We have no resolve on the Children's 
Health Insurance Program. We have no resolve on a myriad of programs 
that people rely on to live their lives every day. There is no resolve 
on the DREAMers.
  Why would we need another 2 weeks when they have had all this time to 
work on these issues?
  The American people deserve better. I say: Shame on this Congress, 
and vote ``no'' on this continuing resolution extension.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Idaho (Mr. Simpson), the chairman of the Energy and Water 
Development, and Related Agencies Subcommittee.
  Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, first, I would like to acknowledge the 
chairman of the Appropriations Committee (Mr. Frelinghuysen). Under his 
leadership, the committee reported and the whole House considered and 
passed all 12 appropriation bills for fiscal year 2018. This year is 
the first time since 2010 that the House passed all 12 appropriations 
bills.
  I would hope my colleagues on the other side of the aisle would 
listen for just a minute.
  In 2010, the Democrats controlled both the House, the Senate, and the 
White House.
  Guess what. They passed all of the appropriations bills on time.
  But you know what they also did?
  They passed a CR until December 19. When they hadn't completed their 
work yet, even though they had passed all 12 appropriations bills in 
the House, they passed another CR until December 22. When they hadn't 
completed their work, guess what. They passed another CR until January.
  Then, when we took the majority, we ended up finishing the 
appropriations process. So their outrage now is a little bit misplaced.
  Now we need to finish the final details with our colleagues in the 
Senate, and we must do this to ensure that the government stays open.
  Continuing resolutions at this time or of any length are not anyone's 
ideal solution to funding our government. Ideally, all 12 
appropriations bills would be enacted by October 1. That process 
provides the Congress with its best opportunity to set priorities 
across government programs, and it provides the most stability for 
agencies to carry out these programs in an efficient and effective 
manner.
  But when we need more time to complete those negotiations, supporting 
a CR to keep our government functioning is the only responsible vote 
for national security, for our economy, and for the general welfare of 
the American people.
  As chairman of the Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies 
Subcommittee, I am very familiar with the positive impacts the Federal 
Government has in each of these areas. Whether it is the Department of 
Energy maintaining our nuclear weapons stockpile, the Corps of 
Engineers dredging our ports and waterways so that goods and materials 
can move freely, or the Bureau of Reclamation providing tens of 
millions of people with water, we must avoid disruptions to these vital 
activities by passing this continuing resolution before us today.
  Will we get all our work done by December 22?
  I don't know.
  But one thing I can guarantee is that we will not get it done by 
tomorrow, and a vote against this resolution is a vote to shut down the 
government. So if my colleagues on the other side of the aisle want to 
shut down the government, all they have to do is vote ``no.''
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes.''
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee).
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I really rise on behalf of the American 
people. All it takes is a simple pen and cooperation between 
appropriators to get the job done.
  Just a few days ago, I listened to representatives from the city of 
Houston. They are only a sample of the hurting people who have suffered 
after hurricanes--one of the toughest hurricane seasons in the history 
of the United States. They indicated that there are 300,000 single-
family homes and multi-family homes still under.
  In my district alone, among other districts, from one part of the 
State to the next, there are people living in shells of a house. We 
have yet had a response to be able to help those individuals who have 
either maxed out or don't have the insurance because they were not in a 
flood zone. That requires us to not do a CR, but to work on the 
appropriations.
  I have got health clinics and the Texas Children's Hospital coming to 
me every day wondering about the Children's Health Insurance Program 
because people are hurting.
  You see, I am not trying to oppose a bill for myself. I am opposing a 
bill that doesn't have the needs of the American people. It doesn't 
have healthcare in it. It doesn't have the hurricane funding in it. It 
doesn't have the funding we need for the Army Corps for pending 
projects to stop the major catastrophic flooding in Houston, Harris 
County; and it has low nondefense spending.
  Let me be very clear. I want a prepared military. I want them to have 
the training and the equipment that they need. It doesn't have that as 
well.
  So, frankly, I believe that we have to stand against a war on the 
American people, a tax bill that is moving along, but the 
appropriations is not; $1.4 trillion taken out of the fat that does not 
exist so the bones of the American people's budget--so that a tax cut 
can go to the top 62 percent and 80 percent, but we can't have the 
funding that we need for the American people.
  This is a war on the American people and, for once, Mr. Speaker, I 
have got to be on the winning side and fight for the American people.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. Culberson), the chairman of the Commerce, Justice, 
Science, and Related Agencies Subcommittee.

  Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Congresswoman Jackson 
Lee, and I look forward to having her vote in support of this 
continuing resolution because she is committed, as I am, and everyone 
in Texas is committed to making sure the money continues to flow to the 
victims of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria.
  As Congresswoman Jackson Lee knows, if this continuing resolution is 
defeated, if she votes against it, she is voting to stop the flow of 
money to the hurricane victims in Houston, and I know she doesn't want 
that to happen.
  That is one of many reasons I rise today in support of this 
continuing resolution, because we want to ensure that the military has 
the funds it needs to operate.
  As chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, 
Science, and Related Agencies, I want to be sure that the FBI and the 
Department of Justice has the funds that they need to continue to 
protect the people of America against terrorism, to protect women and 
children against violence, to stop the scourge of human trafficking and 
sex trafficking, to stop the scourge of opioid trafficking and abuse, 
and to stop the international drug cartels from pouring their poison 
into this country.
  I am proud of the work that this full committee has done, and the 
hard work of my subcommittee--the Commerce, Justice, Science, and 
Related Agencies Subcommittee--to ensure that the law enforcement 
agencies in this country have the funds they need; to ensure the

[[Page H9736]]

Department of Commerce, the National Science Foundation, and NASA have 
the funds they need to make sure America continues to be the world 
leader in scientific and space exploration.
  My colleagues on the Appropriations Committee, working along with the 
Houston delegation, including Ms. Jackson Lee, we are working together 
arm in arm with the Florida delegation to create a hurricane relief 
package that will ensure that the people of Texas and Florida and 
Puerto Rico are adequately compensated for their losses, that we repair 
the damage to our flood control infrastructure.
  But this is going to take time, Mr. Speaker. The Senate has not 
passed any appropriations bills, while the House has passed all 12 of 
them. We do not yet have an overall spending agreement on what level of 
funding is necessary for the military and for domestic purposes, and we 
have got to finish that hurricane relief package that Ms. Jackson Lee 
and all of us have been such strong advocates for.
  So I urge Ms. Jackson Lee and the entire House to vote in support of 
the CR to make sure our hurricane victims are taken care of and the 
government continues to function.

                              {time}  1500

  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from 
Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee).
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, my good friend just spoke on the floor 
of the House, and I certainly look forward to working with him and 
being committed to standing against any legislation that does not 
provide Hurricane Harvey funding, and the CR does not.
  There is nothing in the CR that has anything to do with those who are 
suffering, with houses that are in disrepair or destroyed, as well as 
other items, Army Corps of Engineers items. That is why I stand ready 
not to be in a dispute, but to really raise the issue with my 
colleagues of how urgent it is to move to the appropriations process.
  I mentioned in my remarks that I am concerned as much about military 
preparedness as I am about nondefense discretionary spending. I want 
everybody to be helped. I want the American people to be helped.
  So my vote, whatever it might be, is going to be to drive this engine 
forward to make sure resources get down to Harris County, Houston, 
Corpus Christi, and all the parts of Texas that are in need, and my 
fellow brothers and sisters in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, 
and Florida.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. Carter), the chairman of the Homeland Security 
Subcommittee.
  Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding 
time to me.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this 2-week continuing resolution. 
This short-term CR is a necessary stopgap to keep the government 
operating until we can finalize an agreement for the top line numbers 
and finish our work on all 12 appropriations bills.
  As some of my colleagues have noted, the House Appropriations 
Committee completed its work several months ago, passing all 12 of the 
bills out of this Chamber back in September, about 80 days ago. The 
other Chamber has not made the same progress, and the resolution before 
us today will buy us a little time to negotiate with our counterparts 
who are behind.
  Once our budget deal is done, we will be able to begin those 
negotiations, and I am very confident we will be able to quickly finish 
our work.
  I cannot overstate the importance of getting all 12 appropriations 
bills conferenced and across the line, but I would be remiss if I did 
not emphasize the critical operations funded in my bill. A final FY18 
bill for the Department of Homeland Security is necessary to ensure our 
Nation is safe, secure, and resilient against terrorism and other 
threats.
  Mr. Speaker, the American people count on us to get the job done. I 
urge my colleagues to support this short-term CR to avert a government 
shutdown and allow us to complete our work.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from California (Mr. Calvert), the chairman of the Committee on 
Appropriations Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies 
Subcommittee.
  Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the continuing 
resolution, or the CR. I want to commend Chairman Frelinghuysen and the 
committee staff for their work on this legislation which provides for 
continuity of government operations through December 22. This CR will 
provide Congress time to work with the administration on a 
comprehensive budget agreement, which is necessary for Congress to 
complete its work on the fiscal year 2018 budget.
  The House Appropriations Committee has worked tirelessly this year. 
Each of the 12 Appropriations subcommittees scrubbed the fiscal year 
2018 budget request, held numerous oversight hearings, marked up 
individual bills in subcommittee and full committee, and each of those 
bills came to the House floor where they were amended and passed in the 
full House.
  In the case of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies 
Subcommittee, which I have the privilege to serve as chairman, 80 
amendments were offered by both Republicans and Democrats prior to 
final passage. This is a demonstration that the House Appropriations 
Committee continues to be the workhorse committee in the House. Even 
with all this work completed, a great deal of work remains.
  This CR provides a bridge necessary to give our bipartisan leadership 
the time it needs to determine the top line number in both defense and 
nondefense discretionary spending for fiscal year 2018. Once that 
agreement is in place, my Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies 
Subcommittee and other subcommittees will get to work negotiating a 
comprehensive fiscal year 2018 budget. It is vitally important that we 
complete this work.
  Another reason why I support this short-term continuing resolution is 
so we have time to determine the needs to ensure that sufficient funds 
are available to respond to the fires burning in my home State of 
California. There are three major fires burning today in Los Angeles 
and Ventura Counties. The largest, the Thomas fire, which is north of 
Santa Paula, has already burned 96,000 acres. Earlier this morning, 
there was only 5 percent contained.
  All Californians know about the infamous Santa Ana winds. They are 
blowing now. When these hot winds mix with the high temperatures and 
low humidity we are experiencing now in southern California, they make 
for very dangerous conditions.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Collins of New York). The time of the 
gentleman has expired.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield an additional 15 seconds to 
the gentleman from California.
  Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, just one spark can result in devastating 
wildfire, putting life and property at risk.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge passage of the continuing resolution.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Oklahoma (Mr. Cole), the chairman of the Labor, Health and Human 
Services, Education, and Related Agencies Subcommittee.
  Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman, and I thank the 
gentleman for yielding time to me.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise to urge support for H.J. Res. 123, the short-term 
continuing resolution.
  I want to begin my remarks by, frankly, congratulating the chairman. 
It is his leadership, and my good friend on the other side, they have 
put together the bill in April that actually is funding the government 
today. A majority of Democrats voted for that in the House and the 
Senate. A majority of Republicans voted for it. The President signed 
it.
  Under the chairman's leadership, all 12 bills passed well before the 
deadline that fund the government of September 30. He has been prepared 
to negotiate for 80 days. He hasn't been sitting around in those 80 
days. He also passed two disaster relief bills and is working on a 
third one right now. I think you probably have the hardest working 
chairman and committee in Congress. The rest of the government, the 
Senate

[[Page H9737]]

in particular, needs to catch up with us.
  Now, to their credit, they are actually sitting down with the 
President today, and we are beginning to see some progress. We need 
this additional time to allow us to fund the government.
  To my friends who oppose it, what is your alternative? Shutting down 
the government? I know they don't want to do that. They have always 
argued against it. I have always thought they were right when they 
argued against it, but if we follow their advice and reject this 
amendment, the government will shut down on Friday. That doesn't do any 
American any good.
  Mr. Speaker, the chairman has offered the responsible alternative 
here. I urge its passage.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Florida (Mr. Diaz-Balart), the chairman of the Transportation, 
Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Speaker, I want to first thank the chairman for, 
again, bringing the 12 bills, once again, through the process. This is 
just a short-term continuing resolution. It is a clean date extension, 
and this CR will give an opportunity to continue to move forward 
quickly, by the way, towards finalizing appropriations bills.
  It is important to note that, for example, in the Transportation and 
HUD bill, we considered 22 amendments in committee, 39 amendments here 
on the floor. You see, this has been an open and fair process the 
entire way. Now we must--we must--move quickly to finish the job and 
conference all 12 of these bills.
  In the meantime, however, we must keep the government open and 
funded. This is especially, by the way, important now that our 
communities are pulling together to recover from three devastating 
hurricanes, as well as the thousands of families threatened by raging 
wildfires in California.
  Look, we can't take the risk of shortchanging our first responders, 
our military, given the natural disasters at home and the threats from 
our adversaries abroad. A vote against this CR would do just that.
  Again, just for the Transportation and Housing segment, this CR will 
support ongoing transportation and safety missions, air traffic 
control, housing for vulnerable citizens, including our veterans.
  Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge a ``yes'' vote on the CR. We cannot let 
those folks down. We cannot shut the Federal Government down, and it 
allows us to finish the job, and I thank the chairman for his steadfast 
leadership.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. Dent), the chairman of the Military 
Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Subcommittee.
  Mr. DENT. Mr. Speaker, I, too, rise to join my colleagues in urging 
the House to pass the continuing resolution before us. This is not the 
course of action any of us would prefer, obviously, but the House 
passed all 12 appropriations bills, and it was on the path to complete 
action on appropriations before the start of fiscal year 2018, but our 
ambition was overtaken by events, whether you want to blame the 
ponderous pace of the Senate or time devoted to important issues like 
ObamaCare or tax reform.
  In any event, we need to pass this short-term continuing resolution 
to prevent disruption of important governmental programs and create a 
window in which budget caps discussions can occur.
  All of us stand ready to conference our appropriations bills once a 
debate on budget caps is resolved.
  I want to emphasize how important it is for us to pass each of the 12 
appropriations bills. It is important that each be enacted rather than 
cherry-picking a few that may have the broadest support. It is 
dangerous to allow any part of the government to run on CR autopilot 
for a full year, when we have worked hard to include oversight 
provisions and targeted funding reductions in our bills. All of these 
would be lost with a yearlong CR.
  And speaking about the programs in the Military Construction-VA bill, 
which I chair, a full-year CR prevents DOD from starting 204 new 
projects. This is the core of our MILCON program. Each year we 
appropriate funding for hundreds of new projects. DOD can manage in a 
short-term CR, but a full-year CR would be devastating.
  On the VA side of our bill, while some of the VA programs are 
advance-funded to prevent a government shutdown from cutting off 
services to veterans, there are important new VA activities that would 
be blocked by a full-year CR, like the new electronic health record VA 
is unveiling, or the Choice Program, or its successor for care outside 
the VA system.

  Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to vote ``yes'' for this short-term 
measure to give us the time and tools we need to move forward on 
passage of all 12 appropriations bills, and also to avert a government 
shutdown. Again, I urge an affirmative vote on the CR.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Oregon (Mr. Walden), the distinguished chairman of the Energy and 
Commerce Committee.
  Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished chairman of the 
Appropriations Committee from New Jersey for his great work on this and 
so many other issues.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today to support the continuing resolution and 
especially to highlight a very important short-term provision in here 
that provides certainty for children, families, and States that rely on 
the Children's Health Insurance Program, known as CHIP.
  This adjustment, which was introduced by Mr. Costello from 
Pennsylvania and Mr. Emmer from Minnesota, will provide the Centers for 
Medicare and Medicaid Services with greater flexibility over existing 
dollars so that the agencies can ensure that CHIP programs across the 
country, including now in my home State of Oregon, can continue to have 
vital Federal funding that they need this month to continue CHIP.
  This emergency funding will help families and States while Congress 
finishes the job of providing funding for children's health insurance, 
public health priorities, our community health centers, Medicare 
extenders that seniors rely on. All that work needs to get done.
  It is important to note, we did not arrive at this place of needing a 
stopgap funding resolution because this House failed to act. We acted. 
We did our part. We did our part. I am disappointed that the House has 
passed CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act, which passed this Chamber a couple 
months ago with bipartisan support, has yet to be hammered out in the 
Senate. Of course, over there they need 60 votes to get anything done. 
So a minority of the minority can lock things up, which they have done.
  What makes the inaction on CHIP even more frustrating is that the 
House-passed bill mirrors the bipartisan policy framework that was 
voted out of the Senate Finance Committee under the able leadership of 
Chairman Hatch more than 2 months ago. Unfortunately, though, again, 
Democrats over there have failed to agree on how to fund these 
programs. That is different than what we did.
  Here in the House, the CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act delivers high-
quality healthcare, peace of mind to millions of Americans, providing 5 
years of funding for the Children's Health Insurance Program, which is 
one of the longest extensions ever for the program.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman has expired.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield an additional 1 minute to the 
gentleman from Oregon.
  Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, it would mean continued access to healthcare 
for approximately 9 million children across the country who are 
enrolled in CHIP, another 122,700 in Oregon alone.
  Our House bill was fully funded. We did the heavy lift. We funded it 
through responsible reforms like asking seniors who make $40,000 a 
month, that is $480,000 a year, to pay about $135 more for their 
Medicare. Rich seniors pay a little more, and I am sure these 
grandmothers and grandfathers would do that to help kids afford their 
health

[[Page H9738]]

insurance, and that is what happened here.
  Mr. Speaker, we paid it. It is ready to go. We need the Senate to 
act. I commend the Appropriations Committee and the leadership there 
for putting this provision in so we won't let kids fall through the 
gap.

                              {time}  1515

  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. Burgess), chairman of the Health Subcommittee of the 
Energy and Commerce Committee.
  Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, I must confess, today I was astonished to read an 
article in one of the online magazines that House Democratic leadership 
had asked their Members to vote against this stopgap funding bill 
because of the stalemate over the funding of the State Children's 
Health Insurance Program. We just heard the chairman of the Energy and 
Commerce Committee detail the work that has already been done on this 
bill.
  Let me assure this Congress, there are probably people in here 
saying: What do you mean? We voted on this bill. We voted this bill out 
of the House weeks ago. It was offset. Everything that the Senate asked 
for, they were delivered: the 5-year timeframe, the funding levels the 
Senate asked for. They got everything they wanted.
  Yes, it was offset in a responsible fashion, but now we are told 
House Democratic leadership says vote ``no'' on this continuing 
resolution because we don't like the stopgap funding for the State 
Children's Health Insurance Program.
  What in the devil do they want to happen? We did our work. We did our 
work. We had our legislative hearings on this bill in the summertime. 
We did delay things, unfortunately, 1 day. There was a shooting at a 
House baseball game--you may remember that--that caused us some delay, 
but we came back 2 weeks later. We got our work done.
  We had a responsible bill. It was reflective of everything that was 
requested by the Senate. It was offset, as was requested by a number of 
Members of this body, and it has languished over in the Senate since 
the early part of October. It is time for the Senate to take up and 
pass that bill so we don't have to have this continued discussion.
  This continuing resolution is important because it stops a problem 
that some of our States are going to face. It was completely 
unnecessary. The other body could fix it, and they should.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. Emmer).
  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the distinguished chair of the 
Appropriations Committee. I appreciate the time.
  Mr. Speaker, in my home State of Minnesota, the Children's Health 
Insurance Program, better known as CHIP, provides coverage for 
thousands of low-income, pregnant women as well as new mothers and 
their children.
  When funds for my State's CHIP program ran out, these Minnesotans 
were left wondering the fate of their healthcare. That is why we teamed 
up with Representative Ryan Costello, Chairman Walden, and Subcommittee 
Chair Burgess to introduce the CHIP Stability Act to bring certainty 
and support to Minnesotans and millions of families across the country. 
I am so grateful that our responsible, short-term funding solution is 
incorporated into this continuing resolution today.
  But let me be clear: This is not enough. When the House passed the 
Championing Healthy Kids Act, a fully paid-for and long-term CHIP 
reauthorization solution, we put politics aside and America's most 
vulnerable first. It is my hope that the Senate will do the same very 
soon.
  Mr. Speaker, I encourage all of my colleagues to support this 
continuing resolution so CHIP recipients are able to receive the 
coverage they need.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  I reiterate, the Democrats have said all year there must be a deal to 
raise spending caps in order to enact appropriation bills. Instead of 
heeding that advice, the majority is once again stumbling from crisis 
to crisis trying to fund the government 2 weeks at a time.
  Without a path forward to keep our country secure and make 
investments to grow our economy, we should immediately lift the caps on 
defense and nondefense spending.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, in closing, I strongly urge my 
colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this responsible, necessary legislation. 
Let's keep the Federal Government open for business to serve our 
constituents across the Nation.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. DeFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I voted against H.J. Res. 123, a stop-gap 
resolution that keeps the government open for another two weeks, 
through December 22, 2017. Once again Republicans, who control both the 
House and the Senate, cannot get their work done. Instead they continue 
to kick the can down the road.
  The resolution keeps funding transportation at last year's levels 
rather than the higher funding levels provided by the FAST Act for 
2018, meaning it cuts the mandated increases in transportation 
investment by more than $950 million for Federal-aid highways and 
almost $200 million for public transit investment. As a result, this 
bill withholds $1.2 billion from Federal highway, public transit, and 
highway safety investments--preventing States, local governments, and 
public transit agencies from making critical investments, letting 
contracts, creating good-paying jobs, and working to relieve the 
Nation's crippling traffic congestion.
  A two-week resolution gives Republicans more time to complete their 
massive tax scam bill, which benefits corporations and the wealthy at 
the cost of middle class workers, seniors, students, and our national 
debt. Paul Ryan has said after the bill passes, Republicans will move 
to cut Medicare and Medicaid benefits.
  Further, the resolution does not reauthorize the Children's Health 
Insurance Program (CHIP). Instead, it includes a technical fix to 
ensure no state runs out of CHIP funding in December. If Congress does 
not reauthorize CHIP by December 31st, Oregon will not have enough 
funds to fully fund CHIP on January 1, 2018.
  The resolution does not include a permanent fire borrowing fix or 
additional disaster aid for communities devastated by wildfire or other 
natural disasters. Oregon suffered through one of the worst fire 
seasons in decades. Congress has twice provided USFS emergency funding 
to repay non-wildfire accounts this year. Without a permanent fire 
borrowing fix, USFS will continue to have to rob forest management 
accounts to pay for fire suppression--meaning our forests will continue 
to be overgrown and infested with insects and disease, powder kegs 
waiting to burn next year.
  Finally, the resolution does not include any solutions for the 
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. Roughly 800,000 
law-abiding individuals are at risk of deportation otherwise. Congress 
must work together to ensure that individuals who were brought 
illegally into this country as children, through no fault of their own, 
are not targeted for deportation.
  Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, it is extremely 
disheartening that this Congress is once again debating the merits of a 
temporary funding measure to keep the federal government funded. The 
American people sent their elected representatives to Washington to 
fulfill basic promises to fund the federal government and provide for 
the safety and prosperity of all Americans. A stopgap funding bill like 
the two-week extension before us today falls drastically short of our 
responsibilities to properly serve our constituents.
  A continuing resolution should only be used as a temporary measure. 
Instead, the passage of CRs has become regular order. That is not how 
Congress was intended to work. This continued inaction is costing 
taxpayers billions in wasted dollars, not to mention the opportunity 
costs associated with short-term extensions. I find the complete lack 
of bipartisan talks in Congress alarming, particularly since countless 
families, seniors, and others rely on these programs for their 
wellbeing and safety.
  In addition to our basic responsibility to fund the government, it is 
vitally important that we work to lift the crippling budget caps that 
have

[[Page H9739]]

been holding back critical investments in our nation's infrastructure, 
benefits for our veterans, and other defense and nondefense priorities. 
Democrats in Congress were promised an opportunity to negotiate new 
spending caps after the last CR was adopted in September. Instead, the 
only spending measures we have seen leave this Chamber are partisan 
bills that can never reasonably expect to make it into law.
  There also needs to be a recognition that many Americans have come to 
rely on the federal government for basic services or benefits they were 
promised after serving in our military. For example, I was deeply 
troubled by the Administration's recent effort to eliminate $460 
million for the HUD-VA Supportive Housing program, which provides rent 
assistance to homeless veterans and their families. It was only until 
veterans' advocates, state officials, and Members of Congress protested 
the dramatic reduction did VA Secretary Shulkin reverse course on the 
planned cuts.
  Mr. Speaker, Republicans in Congress are putting politics over the 
wellbeing of our nation by passing temporary spending bills while also 
proposing dramatic cuts to social programs. Ultimately, it will be the 
American people and the U.S. economy who will be stuck dealing with the 
consequences. I urge my colleagues across the aisle to come together to 
engage in good-faith negotiations with me and my Democratic colleagues 
on bipartisan, full-year legislation to fund the federal government.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time for debate has expired.
  Pursuant to House Resolution 647, the previous question is ordered on 
the joint resolution.
  The question is on the engrossment and third reading of the joint 
resolution.
  The joint resolution was ordered to be engrossed and read a third 
time, and was read the third time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the passage of the joint 
resolution.
  The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this question will be postponed.

                          ____________________



