

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 158 (Tuesday, October 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 158 (Tuesday, October 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6286]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      TRIBUTE TO DONNA SACKETT --

   Mr. LEE. Mr. President, government employment is often referred to 
as ``public service.'' That phrase could not be more appropriate in the 
case of Donna Sackett.
  Donna, a caseworker in my Utah office, is retiring after 22 years in 
the Senate. Given the caliber of person that she is, it is my privilege 
to share a bit about her.
  Donna joined my team in 2014, bringing with her an unrivaled 
understanding of rural Utah. If you don't believe me, walk into any 
county meeting in rural Utah and ask about Donna Sackett. You will get 
a lot of smiles in return.
  Donna built these personal relationships during her long residence in 
the State--she was born in Coleville, raised in Ogden--as well as past 
jobs with Governor Norm Bangerter and Senator Bob Bennett.
  Case work and constituent services work are not the right jobs for 
everybody. They require deep empathy and a delicate personal touch, as 
well as a good deal of resilience when dealing with sleepy government 
agencies, but they certainly were right for Donna.
  As anyone will tell you, Donna is a wellspring of compassion. Early 
in her career as a caseworker in the Governor's office, her coworkers 
had to talk to her because she was working cases after hours and 
helping Utahns financially from her own pocket. Beginning caseworkers 
do not have a lot of money to give, as you might imagine, but like the 
widow in the Gospel story, Donna ``cast in all that she had, even all 
her living,'' Mark 12:44.
  That spirit of service still enlivens Donna Sackett. If someone comes 
to her with a problem, she will explore every avenue to put it right.
  When an elderly Navajo man who had worked in uranium mining had 
trouble getting special healthcare through worker's compensation, it 
was Donna who helped him out. When Juab County had trouble with its 
wilderness boundaries, it was Donna who helped county officials with 
the realignment.
  These two examples show that Donna was capable of tackling a wide 
range of problems. She was at home working on Social Security claims or 
public lands disputes. The important thing was that she could help. 
During a brief stint at FEMA, she even traveled to New York to help the 
people of that State recover from Superstorm Sandy.
  Donna worked hard for others, and she had a blast doing it. Her 
coworkers in Utah dubbed her the ``fun sheriff,'' not to be confused 
with the ``fun police,'' because she would often round up staff members 
for office parties. If they were lucky, she would bring her award-
winning salsa. Her love, enthusiasm, and excitement for life made her 
quick to laughter and friendship, while making her equally capable on 
her Harley-Davidson or the dance floor.
  Of course, Donna's cheerfulness and sacrifice are not limited to her 
day job. She loves to teach the young as a primary teacher for her 
church ward and to serve her neighbors and family. She is a loving wife 
to Byra Sackett, a loving mother to three sons--Trever, Rodney, and 
Justin--and to her stepdaughter Karen. She is a loving grandmother and 
great-grandmother, and she cares for the afflicted, sometimes under her 
own roof. The time she spent caring for her mother, son Trevor, and 
step-daughter Karen during the final stages of their lives demonstrated 
her conviction about the eternal nature of families.
  If it wasn't plain enough already, let me say it plainer still: Donna 
Sackett is an inexhaustible source of love for others. She models 
Christ's love through her deeds.
  In her job, as in her private life, Donna Sackett displayed a 
servant's heart. I will miss her dearly, and so will all the Utahns she 
touched over her valuable career in public service.

                          ____________________



