

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7438]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   RECOGNIZING THE WORK OF THE GUARDIANS OF THE WASHINGTON CROSSING 
                           NATIONAL CEMETERY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to voice my admiration for 
a dedicated group of individuals in my community who tirelessly work to 
ensure every veteran receives the recognition they deserve.
  This organization is the Guardians of the Washington Crossing 
National Cemetery. Through rain, sleet, extreme heat, and excessive 
cold, conditions that would make others seek shelter, these dedicated 
members have not missed a single veteran's funeral since the opening of 
the Washington Crossing National Cemetery. Over 10,000 of our Nation's 
veterans have received their final honors provided by this devoted 
patriotic group of citizens.
  It is with deep gratitude that I share their efforts on this floor.
  Mr. Speaker, in recognition of their humble service, I include their 
names in the Record.

       Bob Craven, Gabe Masico, John Heenan, Dan Worden, Mel 
     Benson, Joe Hogan, Joe Longmore, Marge Weiner, Jerry Byrnes, 
     Gene Hamilton, Hugh Bell, Les Walters, Randy Seitter, Ken 
     Myerson, George Sweet, Tom Hauserman, Ron Lyons, Gene Teece, 
     Bob Miles, Terry Schweikert.
       Bill McKenna, Walter Elsperger, Bob Sundling, Sal Castro, 
     Tom Molnar, Bob Davis, Jan Becknell, Bob Greenwood, Bill 
     Tuttle, Bill Kratz, Harry Magrisi, Harold Shultz, Rich 
     Bender, Tim Ward, Ken Fox, Skip Munday, John D'ascenzo, Fred 
     Ameel, Joe Darwalk, Frank Adams.
       John Morgan, Walt Jerdan, Dennis Cudnik, Joe Fonde, Steve 
     Whiteman, Terry Sherk, Jim McDevitt, Bob Castor, Jim Kuhn, 
     Tom Lyons, Bob Boccuti, Jim Hartman, Kathleen Mcall, Marc 
     Wilard, Victor Teat, Ned Cooney, Dick Lima, John Lee, John 
     Wharton, Jim Frawley.
       Chet Gursky, Donn Nolan, Tim Ghebeles, John Sandle, Jim 
     Harris, Ed Steglik, Bill Fenimore, Bob Crossett, Fred 
     Cadwell, Bill Lee, Steve Govern, Brian Watson, Joe Keller, 
     Bill Stevens, Barry Helfer, Dan Madden, Mer Claar, Don Weiss, 
     Charles Godin, John McGarrigle, Jerry McGovern, Fred Stewart, 
     Jack Jameson.

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, we can never truly thank our Nation's 
veterans enough for their service and their sacrifice. But the work of 
the members, past and present, of the Washington Crossing National 
Cemetery Honor Guard is an example we should all follow.


                  Mitochondrial Disease Awareness Week

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 
importance of raising awareness of mitochondrial disease this month of 
September.
  Mitochondrial disease is a chronic genetic disorder that occurs when 
the mitochondria of the cells fail to produce enough energy to keep 
them functioning. This disease affects 1 in 4,000 Americans of all 
ages, including my constituent, Bettemarie Bond.
  It can have severe consequences. Symptoms of mitochondrial disease 
are poor growth, loss of motor function, and an increased risk of 
infection. For more than 25 years, Bettemarie has relied on continuous 
infusions of parenteral nutrition, saline, and pain medication to help 
manage the effects of her conditions.
  As a patient advocate, she raises awareness of the importance of 
access to home care. Home infusion care has allowed Bettemarie to go to 
college, work as an occupational therapist, and buy her home in my 
hometown of Levittown.
  This month we highlight the importance of coming together to support 
those with this disease, as well as educate the public about its 
effects. We can and must spread awareness for this disease through 
social media awareness, spreading the word in our communities, sharing 
stories of those afflicted, wearing green in support, and holding 
events to help gain recognition of this disease and its repercussions.
  Mr. Speaker, I am proud to speak with all those impacted by this 
condition, including my constituents, as we work to find a cure.

                          ____________________



