

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 204 (Thursday, December 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 204 (Thursday, December 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8045]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     REMEMBERING JAMES DOUGLAS MACY

 Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, last month, Oregon lost one of our 
most esteemed landscape architects, James Douglas Macy. Doug dedicated 
his life to protecting places that brought Oregon's unmatched natural 
beauty to millions of visitors. He will be sorely missed.
  Doug grew up on a cattle ranch in Madras, OR, where he soaked up the 
natural beauty of his dramatic surroundings. It was there that his 
passion for landscape architecture first took hold. That passion grew 
as Doug studied landscape architecture at the University of Oregon and 
moved to Portland where he founded the urban design firm Walker Macy.
  Doug blended his passionate advocacy for the protection of Oregon's 
natural treasures with his dedication to civic causes, the arts, and 
beautifying outdoor spaces. Through his design firm, he has influenced 
and mentored generations of landscape architects who have shaped cities 
and public spaces across the Pacific Northwest and beyond.
  Anyone who has visited my hometown of Portland has felt Doug's 
influence in his designs of some of the city's most beloved spaces, 
including Pioneer Courthouse Square, Waterfront Park, and the Vietnam 
Veterans of Oregon Memorial. He was behind much of the revitalization 
that turned downtown Portland into a thriving, diverse, and green city 
where so many people enjoy living.
  Visitors can also get a sense of Doug's love of nature in his designs 
for projects at national parks, including Crater Lake, private natural 
preserves like Opal Creek Ancient Forest Center, the scenic wonders of 
the Columbia River Gorge, State parks such as Oregon's Cottonwood 
Canyon, and hundreds of municipal parks and open spaces. Doug's work 
didn't stop there; his work can also be seen on college campuses, 
museums, vineyards, hospitals, and scenic highways.
  In addition, Doug was a selfless citizen who donated his time and 
professional expertise to a countless number of causes, such as the 
Pacific Northwest College of Art, the Portland Parks Foundation, and 
the Portland Japanese Garden, which recently opened an expansion 
designed with Doug's guidance.
  Doug will be remembered by those whose lives he touched and for 
creating beautiful and inspiring places for people across the West. He 
will especially be remembered as a dedicated father to his son Aaron, 
who died tragically in 1999, and as a caring sibling to his sisters 
Marilyn Macy Brown and Rebecca Macy and his brother Gregg Macy.
  Today I honor the esteemed life and career of James Douglas Macy and 
recognize his enduring legacy as a landscape architect who fiercely 
protected and improved Oregonians' quality of life and many unique 
public and cultural resources throughout the Northwest.

                          ____________________



