

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6924-S6925]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 179

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from 
Oklahoma (Mr. Lankford) and the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Perdue) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 179, a bill to expand the use of E-Verify, to 
hold employers accountable, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 324, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to improve the provision of adult day 
health care services for veterans.


                                 S. 339

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 339, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to repeal the requirement for reduction of 
survivor annuities under the Survivor Benefit Plan by veterans' 
dependency and indemnity compensation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 374

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 374, a bill to enable 
concrete masonry products manufacturers to establish, finance, and 
carry out a coordinated program of research, education, and promotion 
to improve, maintain, and develop markets for concrete masonry 
products.


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, her name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 382, a bill to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to 
develop a voluntary registry to collect data on cancer incidence among 
firefighters.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage of 
certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of durable 
medical equipment.


                                 S. 548

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the names of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) and the Senator from Virginia (Mr. Kaine) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 548, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to reform the low-income housing credit, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 646

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from New 
York (Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 646, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the enforcement of 
employment and reemployment rights of members of the uniformed 
services, to amend the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to improve the 
protection of members of the uniformed services, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 778

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 778, a bill 
to require the use of prescription drug monitoring programs and to 
facilitate information sharing among States.


                                 S. 793

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 793, a bill to prohibit 
sale of shark fins, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 833

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 833, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to expand health care and benefits 
from the Department of Veterans Affairs for military sexual trauma, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 925

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 925, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to improve the ability of health care 
professionals to treat veterans through the use of telemedicine, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 967

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 967, a bill 
to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to increase access to 
ambulance services under the Medicare program and to reform payments 
for such services under such program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1064

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1064, a bill to amend 
the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act to prohibit the 
stigmatization of children who are unable to pay for meals.


                                S. 1169

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1169, a 
bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security Act to provide States 
with an option to provide medical assistance to individuals between the 
ages of 22 and 64 for inpatient services to treat substance use 
disorders at certain facilities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1706

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, her name was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1706, a bill to prevent human health threats posed by the 
consumption of equines raised in the United States.


                                S. 1718

  At the request of Mr. Kennedy, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1718, a bill to authorize 
the minting of a coin in honor of the 75th anniversary of the end of 
World War II, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1753

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) and the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Tillis) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1753, a bill to amend the S.A.F.E. Mortgage 
Licensing Act of 2008 to provide a temporary license for loan 
originators transitioning between employers, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1829

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1829, a bill to 
amend title V of the Social Security Act to extend the Maternal, 
Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting Program.


                                S. 1893

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1893, a bill to amend the 
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to specify 
when bank holding companies may be subject to certain enhanced 
supervision, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1976

  At the request of Mr. Scott, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1976, a bill to 
allow all individuals purchasing health insurance in the individual 
market the option to purchase a lower premium copper plan.


                                S. 2006

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2006, a 
bill to require breast density reporting to physicians

[[Page S6925]]

and patients by facilities that perform mammograms, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2009

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2009, a bill to require a 
background check for every firearm sale.


                                S. 2011

  At the request of Mr. Sanders, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2011, a 
bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for the 
negotiation of lower covered part D drug prices on behalf of Medicare 
beneficiaries and the establishment and application of a formulary by 
the Secretary of Health and Human Services under Medicare part D, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 2016

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 2016, a bill to prevent an 
unconstitutional strike against North Korea.

                          ____________________



