

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 206 (Monday, December 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 206 (Monday, December 18, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H10162-H10164]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                SUPPORTING VETERANS IN STEM CAREERS ACT

  Mr. DUNN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill 
(H.R. 4323) to promote veteran involvement in STEM education, computer

[[Page H10163]]

science, and scientific research, and for other purposes, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 4323

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Supporting Veterans in STEM 
     Careers Act''.

     SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

       In this Act:
       (1) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
     the National Science Foundation.
       (2) Foundation.--The term ``Foundation'' means the National 
     Science Foundation.
       (3) STEM.--The term ``STEM'' has the meaning given the term 
     in section 2 of the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act of 
     2010 (42 U.S.C. 6621 note).
       (4) Veteran.--The term ``veteran'' has the meaning given 
     the term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.

     SEC. 3. SUPPORTING VETERANS IN STEM EDUCATION AND COMPUTER 
                   SCIENCE.

       (a) Supporting Veteran Involvement in Scientific Research 
     and STEM Education.--The Director shall, through the research 
     and education activities of the Foundation, encourage 
     veterans to study and pursue careers in STEM and computer 
     science, in coordination with other Federal agencies that 
     serve veterans.
       (b) Veteran Outreach Plan.--Not later than 90 days after 
     the date of enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit 
     to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the 
     House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation of the Senate a plan for how the 
     Foundation can enhance its outreach efforts to veterans. Such 
     plan shall--
       (1) report on the Foundation's existing outreach 
     activities;
       (2) identify the best method for the Foundation to leverage 
     existing authorities and programs to facilitate and support 
     veterans in STEM careers and studies, including teaching 
     programs; and
       (3) identify a method for the Foundation to track veteran 
     participation in research and education programs of the 
     Foundation, and describe any barriers to collecting such 
     information.
       (c) National Science Board Indicators Report.--The National 
     Science Board shall provide in its annual report on 
     indicators of the state of science and engineering in the 
     United States any available and relevant data on veterans in 
     science and engineering careers or education programs.
       (d) Robert Noyce Teacher Scholarship Program Update.--
     Section 10 of the National Science Foundation Authorization 
     Act of 2002 (42 U.S.C. 1862n-1) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)(5)--
       (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (C) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(C) higher education programs that serve or support 
     veterans.'';
       (2) in subsection (b)(2)(F)--
       (A) by striking ``and students'' and inserting ``, 
     students''; and
       (B) by inserting ``, and veterans'' before the period at 
     the end;
       (3) in subsection (c)(2), by inserting ``and veterans'' 
     before the period at the end; and
       (4) in subsection (d)(2), by inserting ``and veterans'' 
     before the period at the end.
       (e) National Science Foundation Teaching Fellowships and 
     Master Teaching Fellowships Update.--Section 10A(d) of the 
     National Science Foundation Authorization Act of 2002 (42 
     U.S.C. 1862n-1a(d)) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (3)(F)--
       (A) by striking ``and individuals'' and inserting ``, 
     individuals''; and
       (B) by inserting ``, and veterans'' before the period at 
     the end; and
       (2) in paragraph (4)(B), by inserting ``and veterans'' 
     before the period at the end.
       (f) National Science Foundation Computer and Network 
     Security Capacity Building Grants Update.--Section 5(a) of 
     the Cyber Security Research and Development Act (15 U.S.C. 
     7404(a)) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and students who are 
     veterans'' after ``these fields''; and
       (2) in paragraph (3)--
       (A) in subparagraph (I), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (B) by redesignating subparagraph (J) as subparagraph (K); 
     and
       (C) by inserting after subparagraph (I) the following:
       ``(J) creating opportunities for veterans to transition to 
     careers in computer and network security; and''.
       (g) Graduate Traineeships in Computer and Network Security 
     Research Update.--Section 5(c)(6)(C) of the Cyber Security 
     Research and Development Act (15 U.S.C. 7404(c)(6)(C)) is 
     amended by inserting ``or veterans'' after ``disciplines''.
       (h) Veterans and Military Families STEM Education 
     Interagency Subcommittee.--
       (1) In general.--The Director of the Office of Science and 
     Technology Policy shall establish a subcommittee under the 
     Committee on STEM Education of the National Science and 
     Technology Council (established under section 101 of the 
     America COMPETES Reauthorization Act of 2010) to coordinate 
     Federal programs and policies for transitioning and training 
     veterans and military spouses for STEM careers.
       (2) Duties of subcommittee.--The subcommittee established 
     under paragraph (1) shall--
       (A) coordinate Federal agency STEM outreach activities and 
     programs for veterans and military spouses; and
       (B) develop and facilitate the implementation by 
     participating agencies of a strategic plan, which shall--
       (i) specify and prioritize short- and long-term objectives;
       (ii) specify the common metrics that will be used by 
     Federal agencies to assess progress toward achieving such 
     objectives;
       (iii) identify barriers veterans face in reentering the 
     workforce, including a lack of formal STEM education, career 
     guidance, and the process of transferring military credits 
     and skills to college credits;
       (iv) identify barriers military spouses face in 
     establishing careers in STEM fields;
       (v) describe the approaches that each participating agency 
     will take to address administratively the barriers described 
     in clauses (iii) and (iv); and
       (vi) identify any barriers that require Federal or State 
     legislative or regulatory changes in order to be addressed.
       (3) Duties of ostp.--The Director of the Office of Science 
     and Technology Policy shall encourage and monitor the efforts 
     of the Federal agencies participating in the subcommittee to 
     ensure that the strategic plan required under paragraph 
     (2)(B) is developed and executed effectively and that the 
     objectives of such strategic plan are met.
       (4) Report.--The Director of the Office of Science and 
     Technology Policy shall--
       (A) not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
     this Act, submit to Congress the strategic plan required 
     under paragraph (2)(B); and
       (B) include in the annual report required by section 101(d) 
     of the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act a description of 
     any progress made in carrying out the activities described in 
     paragraph (2)(B) of this subsection.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Florida (Mr. Dunn) and the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Eddie Bernice 
Johnson) each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Florida.


                             General Leave

  Mr. DUNN. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and to 
include extraneous material on H.R. 4323, the bill now under 
consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Florida?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. DUNN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, H.R. 4323, the Supporting Veterans in STEM Careers Act, 
is about helping expand veterans' job and education opportunities in 
the sciences.
  The bill requires the National Science Foundation to develop a 
veterans outreach plan and to publish data on veterans' participation 
in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics fields in its 
annual Indicators report.
  The bill also updates the Noyce Teacher Scholarship program, its 
fellowship programs, and cyber grant programs to include outreach to 
veterans.
  Additionally, the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy 
is tasked with overseeing an interagency working group to examine how 
to increase veteran participation in STEM career fields, including 
addressing any barriers for servicemembers and their spouses.
  In the next 5 years, between 1 and 1.5 million members of the United 
States Armed Forces will be leaving the military, according to the 
Department of Defense. Many of these veterans will be seeking new 
careers. By a great margin, veterans cite finding employment as their 
number one need when returning home.
  According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, occupations in the 
STEM fields are projected to grow to more than 9 million between 2012 
and 2022, an increase of 1 million jobs.
  Research shows that many military veterans already have skills and 
training that align with STEM careers, particularly in information 
technology. However, research has also shown that veterans face many 
barriers as they reenter the workforce, including a lack of formal STEM 
education, career guidance, and the difficult task of transferring 
military credits to civilian credits.
  Our Nation's veterans deserve every opportunity to transition to a 
healthy

[[Page H10164]]

and successful civilian life. This bill will help our servicemembers to 
continue to serve our Nation in many new ways by filling 21st century 
jobs and keeping America on the cutting edge of innovation.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend, Mr. Takano, the ranking vice chair of 
the Veterans' Affairs Committee and a fellow member on the Science, 
Space, and Technology Committee, for cosponsoring this bipartisan 
legislation. I also salute all of my fellow veterans on the Science, 
Space, and Technology Committee who joined me in introducing this bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the bill, and I reserve 
the balance of my time.
  Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such 
time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 4323, the Supporting Veterans 
in STEM Careers Act, and I thank Mr. Dunn and Mr. Takano for 
introducing this good legislation.
  The demand for a workforce equipped with STEM skills is growing. At 
the same time, many veterans developed valuable technical skills during 
their service. We must do more to take advantage of those skills and 
increase veteran participation in STEM careers if we are to meet the 
workforce demands.
  This summer, I was pleased to see the passage of the Forever GI Bill, 
which extended GI benefits for veterans enrolled in STEM degree 
programs. Now that STEM degrees are more accessible for veterans, we 
must do more to support veterans during their transition into STEM 
degree programs and careers.
  H.R. 4323 directs the National Science Foundation to report data on 
veterans in STEM studies and careers and develop a plan to increase 
outreach to veterans.
  This bill also creates an interagency committee that will examine how 
Federal programs and policies can best be leveraged to equip veterans 
with the skills they need to transition into STEM careers.
  H.R. 4323 is a good step toward strengthening our STEM workforce and 
creating opportunities for an eminently deserving sector of our 
citizenry.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve 
the balance of my time.
  Mr. DUNN. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as 
he may consume to the gentleman from California (Mr. Takano).
  Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman, the ranking member, 
for yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 4323, the 
Supporting Veterans in STEM Careers Act.
  I led this bill with the gentleman from Florida because finding ways 
to improve higher education for veterans is essential to our economy 
and critical to keeping our promise to those who serve.
  This legislation advances the great work being done by the National 
Science Foundation by requiring NSF to develop a plan to help more 
veterans enter science, technology, engineering, and math fields.
  In addition, it requires NSF to report available data on veterans 
participating in STEM fields.
  NSF will also be required to recruit veterans for existing NSF 
programs, including the Noyse Teacher Scholarship program, and for 
cybersecurity-specific education and training programs.
  Finally, this bill creates an interagency committee to help veterans 
and their spouses transition to STEM careers, including reporting on 
their progress.
  All of us understand the challenges veterans face when trying to 
further their education, but we have also seen what happens when former 
servicemembers are empowered to success as civilians. After World War 
II, soldiers returned home to a GI Bill that sparked an era of 
innovation and economic growth.
  By helping veterans enter STEM education and research programs, this 
bill will help build a workforce that is prepared to succeed in the 
modern economy. At the same time, it will drive some of our best and 
brightest into fields where they can make new discoveries and create 
new technologies that will redefine the world for future generations.
  Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity to work with my Republican 
colleague, Mr. Dunn, and I encourage all Members to support this 
legislation.

                              {time}  1815

  Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I have no further 
requests for time. I urge support of this legislation, and I yield back 
the balance of my time.
  Mr. DUNN. Mr. Speaker, I have no further requests for time, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Florida (Mr. Dunn) that the House suspend the rules and 
pass the bill, H.R. 4323, as amended.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. DUNN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



