

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 185 (Monday, November 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 185 (Monday, November 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9156]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               COMMUNICATION FROM THE CLERK OF THE HOUSE

  The SPEAKER laid before the House the following communication from 
the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

                                              Office of the Clerk,


                                     House of Representatives,

                                 Washington, DC, November 9, 2017.
     Hon. Paul D. Ryan,
     The Speaker, House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Speaker: I have the honor to transmit herewith a 
     scanned copy of a letter received from the Honorable Spencer 
     J. Cox, Lieutenant Governor, the State of Utah, indicating 
     that, according to the preliminary results of the Special 
     Election held November 7, 2017, the Honorable John Curtis was 
     elected Representative to Congress for the Third 
     Congressional District of Utah.
       With best wishes, I am
           Sincerely,
                                                    Karen L. Haas.
       Enclosure.
                                                    State of Utah,


                            Office of the Lieutenant Governor,

                             Salt Lake City, UT, November 9, 2017.
     Hon. Karen L. Haas,
     Clerk, House of Representatives,
     The Capitol, Washington, DC.
       Dear Ms. Haas: This is to advise you that the unofficial 
     results of the Special Election held on Tuesday, November 7, 
     2017, for Representative in Congress from the Third 
     Congressional District of Utah, show that John Curtis 
     received 71,715 or 57.87% of the total number of votes cast 
     for that office.
       It would appear from these unofficial results that John 
     Curtis was elected as Representative in Congress from the 
     Third Congressional District of Utah.
       To the best of our knowledge and belief at this time, there 
     is no contest to this election.
       As soon as the official results are certified to this 
     office by all counties involved, an official Certificate of 
     Election will be prepared for transmittal as required by law.
           Sincerely,
                                                   Spencer J. Cox,
                                         Utah Lieutenant Governor.

 SWEARING IN OF THE HONORABLE JOHN R. CURTIS, OF UTAH, AS A MEMBER OF 
                               THE HOUSE

  Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that the 
gentleman from Utah (Mr. Curtis) be permitted to take the oath of 
office today.
  His certificate of election has not arrived, but there is no contest 
and no question has been raised with regard to his election.
  The SPEAKER. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from 
Utah?
  There was no objection.
  The SPEAKER. Will the Representative-elect and the members of the 
Utah delegation present themselves in the well.
  All Members will rise and the Representative-elect will please raise 
his right hand.
  Mr. CURTIS appeared at the bar of the House and took the oath of 
office, as follows:

       Do you solemnly swear that you will support and defend the 
     Constitution of the United States against all enemies, 
     foreign and domestic; that you will bear true faith and 
     allegiance to the same; that you take this obligation freely, 
     without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and 
     that you will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the 
     office on which you are about to enter, so help you God.

  The SPEAKER. Congratulations, you are now a Member of the 115th 
Congress.

                          ____________________



