

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6923]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mrs. ERNST:
       S. 2033. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to eliminate the deduction for living expenses incurred by 
     members of Congress; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. RISCH (for himself and Mr. Coons):
       S. 2034. A bill to strengthen resources for entrepreneurs 
     by improving the SCORE program, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
           By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself and Ms. Collins):
       S. 2035. A bill to provide increased security for the 
     voting systems of the United States, to protect against 
     intrusion, theft, manipulation, and deletion of voter 
     registration data and ballots, or votes cast, and to prevent 
     cyberattacks from malicious computer hackers, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Rules and Administration.
           By Mr. DONNELLY (for himself, Mrs. Ernst, and Mr. 
             Portman):
       S. 2036. A bill to make necessary changes to the 
     competitive need limitations provision of the Generalized 
     System of Preferences, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. Reed, Mr. Blumenthal, 
             Mr. Murphy, Ms. Warren, and Mr. Carper):
       S. 2037. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     regarding proprietary institutions of higher education in 
     order to protect students and taxpayers; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. MORAN (for himself, Mr. Tester, Mr. Blumenthal, 
             Mr. Brown, Mr. Wyden, and Ms. Collins):
       S. 2038. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for a presumption of herbicide exposure for certain 
     veterans who served in Korea, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY:
       S. 2039. A bill to amend the Foreign Agents Registration 
     Act of 1938 to promote greater transparency in the 
     registration of persons serving as the agents of foreign 
     principals, to provide the Attorney General with greater 
     authority to investigate alleged violations of such Act and 
     bring criminal and civil actions against persons who commit 
     such violations, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. ROBERTS (for himself and Mr. Moran):
       S. 2040. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 621 Kansas Avenue in 
     Atchison, Kansas, as the ``Amelia Earhart Post Office 
     Building''; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. BENNET (for himself, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Heinrich, 
             and Mr. Franken):
       S. 2041. A bill to promote the use of resilient energy 
     systems to rebuild infrastructure following disasters; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr. Grassley, Mr. 
             Durbin, and Mrs. Shaheen):
       S. 2042. A bill to authorize a joint action plan and report 
     on drug waste; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. 
             Baldwin, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Franken, Mrs. Feinstein, 
             Ms. Hirono, Mr. Leahy, and Mr. Cardin):
       S. 2043. A bill to promote the economic security and safety 
     of survivors of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual 
     assault, or stalking, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Reed, 
             Ms. Hirono, Mr. Markey, Mr. Durbin, Mrs. Gillibrand, 
             Ms. Baldwin, Mrs. Murray, Ms. Warren, Ms. Duckworth, 
             Mr. Brown, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. Harris, Mr. Booker, and 
             Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 2044. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     protect more victims of domestic violence by preventing their 
     abusers from possessing or receiving firearms, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Markey, 
             Mr. Durbin, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Warren, Mr. Van 
             Hollen, Ms. Duckworth, Ms. Harris, Mr. Booker, and 
             Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 2045. A bill to establish a grant program to encourage 
     States to adopt certain policies and procedures relating to 
     the transfer and possession of firearms; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 2046. A bill to amend titles 5 and 44, United States 
     Code, to require Federal evaluation activities, improve 
     Federal data management, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Schatz, 
             Mr. Booker, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Merkley, Ms. Warren, and 
             Mr. Udall):
       S. 2047. A bill to restrict the use of funds for kinetic 
     military operations in North Korea; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr. Casey, and Ms. 
             Stabenow):
       S. 2048. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide a credit for employer-provided worker training; to 
     the Committee on Finance.

                          ____________________



