

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 148 (Wednesday, September 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S5474-S5475]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           WESTERN WILDFIRES

  Mr. WYDEN. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
  I am going to talk first about the devastating fires that are 
pounding my State, and then I am going to talk about the new 
legislation introduced earlier today by our colleagues Senator Graham, 
Senator Cassidy, and Senator Heller.
  With respect to the fires, I spent much of last weekend essentially 
going from one base camp to another, visiting six counties to get 
updates at fire camps and emergency operation centers. In these 
travels, I saw major fires burning in Oregon from our northern border 
with Washington State to our southern border with California. Two of 
these fires were so large that they covered more than one county. So I 
believed it was important to visit both their eastern and their western 
fronts. Doing so in each case took almost 2 hours of driving from just 
one side of the fire to the other.
  Of the 1.5 million acres burning in the West last weekend, almost 
500,000

[[Page S5475]]

were burning in my home State alone. Now, there are 17 fires burning in 
Oregon. Thousands of Oregonians have been evacuated this summer, and 
thousands more are facing the prospect of evacuation.
  Thousands of firefighters from Oregon and all over this country have 
been putting themselves in harm's way to help Oregon battle these 
infernos. From the Columbia River Gorge on the Washington border to 
Oregon's southwest corner, hundreds of miles away on the California 
border, I felt it was an enormous honor just to be able to say thank 
you to the thousands of hard-working men and women who are battling 
these life-threatening blazes.
  I met with emergency service responders on the Eagle Creek fire in 
the gorge. The Chetco Bar fire in Southwestern Oregon that stretches 
across Jackson and Josephine Counties, the Jones fire in Lane County, 
and the Miller Complex fire in Jackson County. In each of these 
settings, I met men and women who exemplify what I call the Oregon way. 
The Oregon way isn't written down anywhere. It isn't a law or a rule, 
it is an ethic. It is an ethic where Oregonians step up and make sure 
friends and neighbors aren't in jeopardy, and the Oregon way is all 
about Oregonians staying on the job until it is finished.
  I was also very moved by the presence of those from all over the 
country who came to our State, sometimes from thousands of miles away, 
to help save Oregon treasures--people from California, Arizona, all the 
way from the east coast and many points in between who came to Oregon 
to help out. It was just stunning to meet folks from Florida who, while 
worrying about their friends and loved ones in the path of Hurricane 
Irma, were up and working on our natural disaster, which is wildfire.
  To get this job done right for generations to come, you have to 
recognize the inescapable proposition that the fires are getting 
hotter, they are getting bigger, and they are getting much more 
dangerous to fight. In one example, I heard how the Eagle Creek fire 
raced 13 miles in 15 hours, and it burned with such ferocity, with high 
winds, that it jumped the Columbia River. It jumped the river to start 
a fire on the Washington side of the gorge. For those who might not be 
familiar with normal fire behavior, I want to just take a minute and 
say how serious that is. Usually a river, and certainly a river as 
large as the Columbia, acts as a natural fire break, but these fires we 
are seeing today are not normal fires. These are not your grandfather's 
fires. These are gargantuan, dangerous fires. I haven't seen anything 
like it, along with my friend who has been on the Natural Resources 
Committee for a long time. This year is on track to be the worst fire 
in history in terms of total acres burned.
  The Washington Post newspaper on Friday reported that with the dozens 
of fires that have spread across the West, an area larger than the size 
of Maryland has been burned straight through.
  The way the Federal Government has historically paid for fighting 
fires is just plain wrong, and it leads to a cycle that adds fuel to 
these exceptionally dangerous fires. I have been on this floor raising 
this issue. I served as the chairman of the Energy and Natural 
Resources Committee not too long ago. Our committee has heard in 
hearings again and again about the dangers fires pose to our community, 
but the system for funding fire prevention in a timely way before our 
country has to spend so much more money for putting the fires out 
hasn't been fixed. That system is still broken as we discuss it here 
today.
  Last week, I came to the Senate floor and talked about this subject 
the same day Congress passed legislation to keep the government open 
for 3 more months and provide aid for the recovery efforts after 
Hurricane Harvey. Thankfully, that legislation also included funding to 
ensure the Forest Service can refill the funds the agency is being 
forced to borrow from fire prevention accounts to fight the fires now, 
but that funding, certainly necessary now, doesn't fix the long-term 
problem.
  The Congress must make sure the Forest Service has the resources it 
needs to treat the forest before they burn, to help deal with this 
issue before the forest burns, because that will make them more flame 
resistant and stronger in terms of the capacity to deal particularly 
with the heat and lightning strikes and fuel buildup.
  Let me lay out the steps the Congress needs to take in the coming 
days. First, Congress needs to lock in disaster funding to get the 
communities devastated by wildfires back on their feet. They are facing 
destroyed homes and businesses. Recreational areas that are the 
lifeblood of a lot of western communities have been destroyed. They 
lost timber revenue. The cleanup and restoration efforts are going to 
be tough and costly. So that is step 1 on this to-do list.
  Step 2 is fixing the broken disaster fueling budget system known in 
the West as fire borrow. As the government spends more on fighting 
fires, it has stolen, in the past, funds that are supposed to go to 
fire prevention so the money isn't there to thin out the dead and dying 
material from our forests, and all it takes is one spark to start an 
inferno. The problem is only going to get bigger year after year as 
climate change roasts the landscapes across the West and wreaks havoc 
across the Nation. This has gone on for years. It is leading to bigger, 
more threatening fires, and it is critical that this Congress put a 
stop to it.
  Other parts of our Nation faced horrible natural disasters over the 
last several weeks with hurricanes battering Texas, Florida, and much 
of the South. The way the government pays for firefighting right now 
would be like funding emergency hurricane response teams with the money 
that is supposed to pay for levies and sandbags for the next storm. The 
practice of fire borrowing that has plagued so many western communities 
just defies common sense.
  Years ago, along with my colleague from Idaho, Senator Crapo, I 
introduced a fix to this problem with the Wildfire Disaster Funding 
Act. Senator Crapo and I feel like we have been at it longer than the 
Trojan War. We have been at this year after year, and now we have the 
support of 261 groups and experts, folks in the forestry industry, 
environmental folks, scientists. Senator Crapo, as chairman of the 
Banking Committee, has another bill that, in effect, builds on this 
work we have done for years. I support his sensible proposal as well.
  The bottom line is, the West cannot wait any longer for Congress to 
send them help and repair for the long term, which is fixing this 
broken system that shortchanges prevention and adds fuel to the raging 
wildfires. There is bipartisan commitment to solving this crisis, and I 
know Senators across the West, where these fires are burning, have been 
going on exactly the same kind of tours I went on last weekend. I am 
sure they met, as I did, these incredibly dedicated, courageous 
firefighters who are just working themselves to exhaustion. I am sure 
they heard from many of the same types of operations teams about the 
fight they are facing.
  Those men and women on the frontlines fighting fire are doing their 
part. It is time for the Congress to do ours. Let's make sure our 
communities have the funds they need to fight fires, put the fires out. 
Once and for all, let us end this bizarre, commonsense-defying budget 
process called fire borrowing that, in effect, has the Federal 
Government consistently shorting prevention and then having to spend 
more down the road when we have these enormous fires as a result of the 
fact that you haven't gone in there to clean out that dead material.

                          ____________________



