

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 159 (Wednesday, October 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 159 (Wednesday, October 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7759-H7760]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   COMMEMORATING THE DEDICATION OF THE SOUTH TEXAS AVIATORS MEMORIAL

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Farenthold) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FARENTHOLD. Mr. Speaker, as home to almost half of all naval air 
training in our country, south Texas is a hub of military aviation. 
That is why I am here today to commemorate the dedication of the South 
Texas Aviators Memorial, which will be dedicated on October 12 at 
Corpus Christi's Ropes Park.
  After almost 3 years of planning, fundraising, and awareness by 
Associate Directors Caleb and Anne Booher, former Naval Air Station 
Corpus Christi flight instructor Chris Keech, and many other 
volunteers, the memorial will soon be permanently placed to grace the 
bay front of Corpus Christi.
  This memorial, a tribute to fallen military aviators of all branches, 
features a 7-foot-tall bronze aviator surrounded by benches and a 
walkway made of bricks bearing the name of local individuals and 
businesses that supported the building of the memorial.

                              {time}  1100

  Thank you to each person who sponsored the building of this new 
memorial. I am proud to represent so many south Texans that are proud 
of our military and are honoring military aviators who have paid the 
ultimate price in service to our country.


          Service Academy Nights in the 27th District of Texas

  Mr. FARENTHOLD. Mr. Speaker, each year I have the honor of nominating 
young men and women from the 27th District of Texas to our United 
States service academies.
  My office will soon be holding two service academy nights to help 
students interested in earning appointments to a service academy learn 
about the application process and eligibility requirements. 
Representatives from West Point, Annapolis, the Air Force Academy, the 
Coast Guard Academy, and the Merchant Marine Academy will be on hand to 
answer questions. There will be a presentation about the Reserve 
Officer Training Corps, or ROTC.
  These events are recommended for young men and women between the ages 
of 17 and 21 and their parents who are residents of the 27th 
Congressional District of Texas, but are open to any high school 
student considering applying to our service academies.
  The first one will be in Victoria, on Tuesday, October 10, from 6 
p.m. to 8 p.m. at the University of Houston-Victoria, University North 
Building Multi-Purpose Room, that is Room 114, at 3007 North Ben Wilson 
Street in Victoria.
  The second will be in Corpus Christi, on Thursday, October 12, from 6 
p.m. to 8 p.m. at Veterans Memorial High School's cafeteria, 3750 
Cimarron Boulevard.
  For more information, you can contact my office or visit my website, 
farenthold.house.gov.


              Double Ten Day is the National Day of Taiwan

  Mr. FARENTHOLD. Mr. Speaker, on October 10, or Double Ten Day, it is 
the National Day of Taiwan, and I would like to take the opportunity to 
wish the people of Taiwan a very happy Double Ten Day.
  Over the years, Taiwan has proven its leadership on the global stage, 
despite its unique political status, through its commitment to 
democracy and its contribution to global health initiatives, 
international development, and humanitarian missions.
  Taiwan was there following the 2010 earthquake in Haiti, the 2013 
typhoon in the Philippines, and was delivering critical aid and food in 
times of need. Taiwan was also there for the United States when 
Hurricane Harvey hit. They have donated a total of $800,000 to the 
American Red Cross and Texas to assist with relief efforts.
  I would like to thank the Taiwanese Government and its people for 
this generous support and their continued friendship. I would also like 
to recognize all the great Taiwanese companies doing business in the 
27th District of Texas. Thank you for creating American jobs and being 
a part of our communities.
  Thank you again, Taiwan, and I offer my best Double Ten Day wishes to 
the people of Taiwan.


           Birthday Wishes to Bob Haueter and Luis Buentello

  Mr. FARENTHOLD. Mr. Speaker, this week is the birthday of two of my 
staff: Luis Buentello in my district office, and Bob Haueter, my chief 
of staff here in Washington, D.C., and Corpus Christi. Both are 
dedicated public servants committed to helping the people of the 27th 
District and all of America.

[[Page H7760]]

  Happy birthday, guys, and thanks for the help.

                          ____________________



