

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 162 (Tuesday, October 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 162 (Tuesday, October 10, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7917-H7918]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. McNERNEY (for himself and Mr. Kinzinger):
       H.R. 3995. A bill to require the Federal Communications 
     Commission to submit to Congress a report on promoting 
     broadband internet access service for veterans; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. ISSA (for himself and Mr. Nadler):
       H.R. 3996. A bill to amend title 28, United States Code, to 
     permit other courts to transfer certain cases to United 
     States Tax Court; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ROTHFUS (for himself and Ms. Gabbard):
       H.R. 3997. A bill to waive the application fee for any 
     special use permit for veterans demonstrations and special 
     events at war memorials on Federal land, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. ZELDIN:
       H.R. 3998. A bill to increase public safety by permitting 
     the Attorney General to deny the transfer of firearms or the 
     issuance of explosives licenses to known or suspected 
     terrorists, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. CURBELO of Florida (for himself, Mr. Moulton, 
             Mr. King of New York, Mr. Polis, Mr. Lance, Ms. Kelly 
             of Illinois, Mr. Meehan, Ms. Rosen, Mr. Royce of 
             California, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, 
             Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Paulsen, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. 
             Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. Kihuen, Ms. Ros-
             Lehtinen, Mr. Delaney, Mr. Dent, Mr. Gene Green of 
             Texas, Ms. Stefanik, and Mr. Perlmutter):
       H.R. 3999. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     prohibit the manufacture, possession, or transfer of any part 
     or combination of parts that is designed and functions to 
     increase the rate of fire of a semiautomatic rifle but does 
     not convert the semiautomatic rifle into a machinegun, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. COMSTOCK:
       H.R. 4000. A bill to provide for the establishment of a 
     mechanism to allow borrowers of Federal student loans to 
     refinance their loans, to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to extend the exclusion for employer-provided 
     educational assistance to employer payment of interest on 
     certain refinanced student loans, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GARAMENDI (for himself, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Ms. 
             Bordallo, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mrs. 
             Bustos, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Doggett, Mr. 
             Gonzalez of Texas, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Roybal-
             Allard, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Costa, Mr. Nolan, and Ms. 
             Pingree):
       H.R. 4001. A bill to provide for the refinancing and 
     recalculation of certain Federal student loans, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. POSEY:
       H.R. 4002. A bill to amend chapter 7 of title 5, United 
     States Code, to provide that in the case of an agency that 
     appeals the ruling of a court under that chapter, and does 
     not prevail on appeal, the court shall award the prevailing 
     party reasonable attorney's fees and costs, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. POSEY:
       H.R. 4003. A bill to require that in a notice of proposed 
     rule making for a new rule, the notice shall identify two 
     rules which the agency intends to repeal; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. POSEY:
       H.R. 4004. A bill to amend the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act to require employees of the White House 
     to enroll in Obamacare, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. TONKO:
       H.R. 4005. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to allow for medical assistance under Medicaid for 
     inmates during the 30-day period preceding release from a 
     public institution; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.

[[Page H7918]]

  

           By Ms. ADAMS (for herself, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. 
             Brown of Maryland, Ms. Plaskett, Ms. Eddie Bernice 
             Johnson of Texas, Ms. Norton, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, 
             Mr. Byrne, Ms. Lee, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Mrs. 
             Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Evans, Ms. 
             Hanabusa, Mrs. Beatty, Ms. DeGette, Mr. Nadler, Mr. 
             Price of North Carolina, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Higgins of 
             New York, Mr. Meeks, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. David 
             Scott of Georgia, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Mr. Bishop 
             of Georgia, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Westerman, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. 
             Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Ms. 
             Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Costa, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Crist, Ms. Maxine 
             Waters of California, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. 
             Norcross, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Clarke of New 
             York, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Ms. Bass, Mr. 
             Walker, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney 
             of New York, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. McEachin, Mr. 
             Richmond, Mr. Hill, Ms. Jayapal, and Mrs. Demings):
       H. Res. 563. A resolution honoring the accomplishments of 
     the 9 historically Black colleges and universities that 
     celebrated their sesquicentennial the week of September 24, 
     2017; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. JONES (for himself and Mr. Budd):
       H. Res. 564. A resolution affirming the constitutional 
     power of Congress over the Nation's debts; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. LAWRENCE (for herself, Mr. Cummings, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mr. Jordan, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Hastings, Mr. 
             Evans, Ms. Norton, Mr. Blumenauer, Mrs. Davis of 
             California, Mr. Garamendi, Ms. Bass, Mr. Lawson of 
             Florida, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. 
             Conyers, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Ms. Kaptur, 
             Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, and Ms. Moore):
       H. Res. 565. A resolution expressing support for the 
     recognition of October 9, 2017, as ``World Post Day''; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. POLIS (for himself, Mr. Lipinski, and Mrs. 
             Comstock):
       H. Res. 566. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of the week of October 4, 2017, through October 
     10, 2017, as World Space Week and for the designation of the 
     week of October 8, 2017, through October 14, 2017, as Earth 
     Science Week; to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology, and in addition to the Committee on Education and 
     the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.

                          ____________________



