

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7843]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 RECOGNIZING KINDRED ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

 Ms. HEITKAMP. Mr. President, I want to congratulate the 
students, faculty, and parents of Kindred Elementary School, located in 
Kindred, ND, on being awarded the 2017 National Blue Ribbon School 
Award.
  Founded in 1982, the National Blue Ribbon Schools Program recognizes 
public and private elementary, middle, and high schools where students 
perform at very high levels or where significant improvements are being 
made in students' academic achievement. A National Blue Ribbon Schools 
flag overhead has become a mark of excellence in education recognized 
by everyone from parents to policymakers in thousands of communities. 
Since the program's founding, the U.S. Department of Education has 
bestowed this coveted award to more than 8,500 of America's best 
schools.
  Kindred Elementary School serves nearly 460 students and was one of 
three schools in North Dakota to be designated as an Exemplary High 
Performing School under this award. Receiving recognition as a National 
Blue Ribbon School signifies the hard work and dedication of the 
educators, students, and parents involved, and I have no doubt the 
students at Kindred Elementary are on a path to success. Kindred 
Elementary hires and retains highly effective teachers that operate 
using professional learning communities. This allows school staff to 
collaborate on a daily basis and develop methods for continuous 
improvement based on student data and progress. To support its 
students, the school uses a multitiered approach called response-to-
intervention, RtI, that offers timely support to students' academic and 
behavioral needs. The RtI team consists of classroom teachers, special 
education teachers, speech and occupational therapy staff, and other 
key staff. Kindred's innovative approach and commitment to developing 
student potential has resulted in high student outcomes that we can all 
be proud of.
  School leadership states the ``school district thrives because of the 
strong relationship between students, their families, community 
members, and the school district staff.'' To further the communal 
relationship, the school offers enrichment opportunities through 
lyceums, field trips, and guest presenters and performers. It is 
through this dedication that the school provides a tailored education 
that allows student, staff, and faculty to succeed.
  The Kindred Public School District's mission statement reads, 
``Improving tomorrow, by learning today.'' This mission embodies all 
that Kindred Elementary is working to accomplish by looking at the 
needs of each individual student, as well as providing a safe and 
respectful learning environment that breeds success. I wish the very 
best to the community of Kindred and congratulations to all engaged at 
Kindred Elementary for achieving this high honor. Thank you for your 
commitment to our children and leaders of tomorrow.

                          ____________________



