

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S5884]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 
Business Council of Douglas County for 25 years of striving toward a 
``diverse, sustainable and healthy economy'' for Douglas County, NV.
  The Business Council of Douglas County started in September of 1992 
and consists of business owners, professionals, and industry leaders 
who collaborate with State, local, and Federal government institutions 
to identify and resolve critical matters in the business community. 
Ultimately, the partnership formed increases the ability of small 
businesses to grow, expand, and hire in Douglas County and across 
northern Nevada.
  In 1996, Douglas County adopted a 20-year master plan designed to 
provide guidance to the county's future development. Just 4 years into 
their existence, the council was instrumental in helping to shape that 
plan. Their involvement presented them with a unique opportunity to 
share their input and better shape the county's economic future.
  In addition to providing advice and insight to government entities, 
the Business Council of Douglas County plays a prominent role in 
educating the community and serving as a catalyst for debate on 
relevant and timely issues. By holding townhall debates and educational 
forums on critical issues like water and transportation, as well as 
forums for candidates running to serve in public office, the council 
has helped facilitate a community where everyone has a vested interest 
in the county's future.
  Furthermore, the Business Council of Douglas County is striving to do 
more and encouraging businessowners in northern Nevada, as well as 
community members, to participate in the organization's efforts and to 
stay informed. To accomplish this, the council distributes a weekly 
newsletter on topics of importance to the business community, relevant 
government meetings, votes, projects, and news. The council's general 
membership hosts a monthly breakfast with guest speakers at no charge 
because all meetings are open to members and their invited guests. They 
also host an annual critical issues conference. This year's conference 
is another way for them to discuss important issues to the county and 
its ability to grow the economy.
  The Business Council of Douglas County's efforts and priorities go 
hand-in-hand with my fight in Washington, DC, to foster an economic 
climate that allows small businesses to invest, grow, and hire across 
the State. Having served in the Nevada Legislature and currently as our 
State's senior Senator, I can attest to the significance of the council 
and the partnership they have formed with all levels of government.
  In closing, I am honored and proud to recognize the Business Council 
of Douglas County for 25 years of tireless advocacy on behalf of the 
entire community. Through years of hard work, planning, and educational 
efforts, the Douglas County business community has an open and 
transparent dialogue with their State, local, and Federal officials. 
The partnership that has developed will not only continue to grow but 
benefit the community for years to come.

                          ____________________



