

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 150 (Monday, September 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 150 (Monday, September 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S5801-S5802]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 262

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 262, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend and modify the section 45 
credit for refined coal from steel industry fuel, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 272

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 272, a bill to enhance the 
security operations of the Transportation Security Administration and 
the stability of the transportation security workforce by applying a 
unified personnel system under title 5, United States Code, to 
employees of the Transportation Security Administration who are 
responsible for screening passengers and property, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 294

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 294, a bill to amend the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to clarify the Food and Drug 
Administration's jurisdiction over certain tobacco products, and to 
protect jobs and small businesses involved in the sale, manufacturing 
and distribution of traditional and premium cigars.


                                 S. 336

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 336, a bill 
to amend title 38, United States Code, to modify authorities relating 
to the collective bargaining of employees in the Veterans Health 
Administration, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from California 
(Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 407, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the railroad track 
maintenance credit.


                                 S. 446

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 446, a bill to allow 
reciprocity for the carrying of certain concealed firearms.


                                 S. 536

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Arizona (Mr. 
McCain) was added as a cosponsor of S. 536, a bill to promote 
transparency in the oversight of cybersecurity risks at publicly traded 
companies.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. McCain) was added as a cosponsor of S. 540, a bill to limit the 
authority of States to tax certain income of employees for employment 
duties performed in other States.


                                 S. 744

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 744, a bill to 
amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to delay the inclusion in consumer 
credit reports and to establish requirements for debt collectors with 
respect to medical debt information of veterans due to inappropriate or 
delayed billing payments or reimbursements from the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 796

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 796, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the exclusion for employer-
provided education assistance to employer payments of student loans.


                                 S. 870

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 870, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to implement Medicare payment policies designed to improve 
management of chronic disease, streamline care coordination, and 
improve quality outcomes without adding to the deficit.


                                 S. 910

  At the request of Mr. Schumer, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 910, a bill to prohibit 
discrimination against individuals with disabilities who need long-term 
services and supports, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 915

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 915, a bill to amend title 
II of the Social Security Act to repeal the Government pension offset 
and windfall elimination provisions.


                                 S. 926

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 926, a bill to authorize 
the Global War on Terror Memorial Foundation to establish the National 
Global War on Terrorism Memorial as a commemorative work in the 
District of Columbia, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1027

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin), the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Udall) and the Senator 
from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds) were added as cosponsors of S. 1027, a 
bill to extend the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-
Determination Act of 2000.


                                S. 1063

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1063, a bill 
to amend the Public Health Service Act to establish direct care 
registered nurse-to-patient staffing ratio requirements in hospitals, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1106

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1106, a bill to designate 
the same individual serving as the Chief Nurse Officer of the Public 
Health Service as the National Nurse for Public Health.


                                S. 1152

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1152, a bill to create 
protections for depository institutions that provide financial services 
to cannabis-related businesses, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1241

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from Utah 
(Mr. Hatch) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1241, a bill to improve the prohibitions on money 
laundering, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1310

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1310, a bill to amend the 
Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 to specify which depository 
institutions are subject to the maintenance of records and disclosure 
requirements of such Act, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1373

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1373, a bill to designate 
the Gulf of Mexico Alliance as a Regional Coordination Partnership of 
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1498

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1498, a bill to establish 
in the Smithsonian Institution a comprehensive American women's history 
museum, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1503

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1503, a bill to require 
the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in recognition of the 60th 
anniversary of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1693, a bill to 
amend the Communications Act of 1934 to clarify that section 230 of 
that Act does not prohibit the enforcement against providers and users 
of interactive computer services of Federal and State

[[Page S5802]]

criminal and civil law relating to sex trafficking.


                                S. 1746

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Nebraska (Mr. 
Sasse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1746, a bill to require the 
Congressional Budget Office to make publicly available the fiscal and 
mathematical models, data, and other details of computations used in 
cost analysis and scoring.


                                S. 1757

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1757, a bill to 
strengthen border security, increase resources for enforcement of 
immigration laws, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1767

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the names of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1767, a bill to reauthorize the farm to 
school program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1779

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1779, a bill to repeal certain 
provisions of the Federal Switchblade Act to allow domestic 
manufacturers to ship and sell their products to buyers located in 
other States and to permit the importation of certain knife parts.


                                S. 1787

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1787, a bill to 
reauthorize the National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992.


                                S. 1806

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1806, a bill to 
amend the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 and the 
Head Start Act to promote child care and early learning, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1808

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1808, a bill to extend 
temporarily the Federal Perkins Loan program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1816

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1816, a bill to amend the 
Fair Credit Reporting Act to enhance fraud alert procedures and provide 
free access to credit freezes, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 250

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the names of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) were added 
as cosponsors of S. Res. 250, a resolution condemning horrific acts of 
violence against Burma's Rohingya population and calling on Aung San 
Suu Kyi to play an active role in ending this humanitarian tragedy.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 329

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 329 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 812

  At the request of Mr. Brown, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 812 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 814

  At the request of Mr. Brown, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 814 intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 942

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 942 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1020

  At the request of Ms. Harris, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 1020 
intended to be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for 
fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1032

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio), the Senator from South Carolina (Mr. Scott) and the 
Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson) were added as cosponsors of amendment 
No. 1032 proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for 
military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 
and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1033

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, the names of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott), the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson) and the 
Senator from Florida (Mr. Rubio) were added as cosponsors of amendment 
No. 1033 proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for 
military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 
and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 1088

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from California 
(Ms. Harris) and the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Bennet) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 1088 proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



