

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9293-H9294]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             STAFF SERGEANT PETER TAUB POST OFFICE BUILDING

  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill 
(H.R. 2873) to designate the facility of the United States Postal 
Service located at 207 Glenside Avenue in Wyncote, Pennsylvania, as the 
``Staff Sergeant Peter Taub Post Office Building''.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 2873

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. STAFF SERGEANT PETER TAUB POST OFFICE BUILDING.

       (a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal 
     Service located at 207 Glenside Avenue in Wyncote, 
     Pennsylvania, shall be known and designated as the ``Staff 
     Sergeant Peter Taub Post Office Building''.
       (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
     document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
     facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be 
     a reference to the ``Staff Sergeant Peter Taub Post Office 
     Building''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Kentucky (Mr. Comer) and the gentlewoman from New Jersey (Mrs. Watson 
Coleman) each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Kentucky.


                             General Leave

  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members have 
5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and include 
extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Kentucky?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2873, introduced by the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Brendan F. Boyle).
  The bill names the United States Post Office at 207 Glenside Avenue 
in Wyncote, Pennsylvania, after U.S. Air Force Staff Sergeant Peter 
Taub.
  During his service, Staff Sergeant Taub participated in more than 12 
combat missions in hostile areas.
  Staff Sergeant Taub was killed in action on December 21, 2015, in an 
ambush suicide attack in Afghanistan. He gave his life in service to 
this Nation.
  I thank the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Brendan F. Boyle) for 
introducing this bill to honor the bravery and sacrifice of Staff 
Sergeant Taub.
  I urge my colleagues to support this bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to join my colleagues in consideration of 
H.R. 2873, a bill to designate the facility of the United States Post 
Office located at 207 Glenside Avenue in Wyncote, Pennsylvania, as the 
Staff Sergeant Peter Taub Post Office Building.
  A native of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Mr. Taub was inspired by his 
grandfather's World War II military service to join the Air Force in 
2007. He loaded missiles for F-15 fighter jets in Japan before 
transferring to Ellsworth Air Force Base in South Dakota, where he 
specialized in arming B-1 bombers.
  In 2013, after earning his bachelor's degree in cybersecurity, Peter 
became a special agent in the Air Force Office of Special 
Investigations and participated in over a dozen combat missions through 
hostile areas.
  On December 21, 2015, while in Afghanistan, Staff Sergeant Taub gave 
his life, along with four of his fellow airmen, when his unit was 
ambushed in a suicide attack. He was posthumously awarded the Bronze 
Star, Purple Heart, Air Force Commendation Medal, and Air Force Combat 
Action Medal, and he leaves behind a beloved wife and two children.
  Mr. Speaker, we should pass this bill to honor Staff Sergeant Peter 
Taub's bravery and remember the ultimate sacrifice he made to protect 
our Nation.
  I urge the passage of H.R. 2873.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume 
to the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Brendan F. Boyle).
  Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I thank my 
colleague from not too far away in Trenton, New Jersey, as well as my 
colleague from the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
  Today, I rise in support of H.R. 2873, a bill to designate the 
facility of the United States Postal Service located at 207 Glenside 
Avenue in Wyncote, Pennsylvania, as the Staff Sergeant Peter Taub Post 
Office Building.
  Staff Sergeant Taub, a constituent of my 13th Congressional District 
of Pennsylvania, was a shining example of the best our country has to 
offer. He exemplified unwavering patriotism and heroic bravery.
  Peter made the ultimate sacrifice for his country when a suicide 
bomber took his life in Afghanistan in December 2015. Renaming the 
Wyncote Post Office in his hometown is really the least we can do to 
honor him. It is a small but important symbol of our eternal thanks. I 
am here today urging the House to pass my legislation to do just that.
  Peter was born on November 2, 1985, in my hometown of Philadelphia, 
to his parents, Joel Taub and Arlene Wagner. Peter was then raised in 
Wyncote,

[[Page H9294]]

Pennsylvania, and graduated from Cheltenham High School in 2004.
  His mother, Arlene, and brother, Jonathan, run the very popular 
Washington, D.C., sandwich shop called Bub and Pop's.
  Peter was inspired by his grandfather's service in World War II, so 
he enlisted in the Air Force in December of 2007 after attending 
community college for some time.
  During his career in the military, Peter was assigned to a base in 
Japan, where he loaded missiles onto F-15 fighter jets. Three years 
later, he was transferred to Ellsworth Air Force Base in South Dakota, 
where he specialized in arming B-1 bombers.
  Peter went on to obtain a bachelor's degree in cybersecurity and was 
hired as a special agent in the Air Force Office of Special 
Investigations in December 2013. During his service, Peter participated 
in more than 12 combat missions in hostile areas.
  Peter was killed, along with four other airmen, in a suicide ambush 
attack in Afghanistan on December 21, 2015.
  Peter is survived by his wife, Christina; their 3-year-old daughter, 
Penelope; and another daughter, Petra, who was born after Peter's death 
in the summer of 2016.
  President Obama paid tribute to Peter, as well as the other troops 
who were killed in the attack, calling their service ``outstanding'' 
and ``brave.'' I second those descriptions.
  Posthumously, Peter was awarded the Bronze Star, the Purple Heart, 
the Air Force Commendation Medal, and the Air Force Combat Action 
Medal.
  It is my hope that, with this legislation, the 13th District of the 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania will pay daily tribute to the memory of 
one of our heroes, Staff Sergeant Peter Taub.
  Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the bill, and I yield back 
the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. Comer) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 2873.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



