

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 164 (Thursday, October 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 164 (Thursday, October 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7989-H7998]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




ADDITIONAL SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR DISASTER RELIEF REQUIREMENTS 
                               ACT, 2017

  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and agree 
to the resolution (H. Res. 569) providing for the concurrence by the 
House in the Senate amendment to H.R. 2266, with an amendment.
  The Clerk read the title of the resolution.
  The text of the resolution is as follows:

                              H. Res. 569

       Resolved, That upon the adoption of this resolution the 
     House shall be considered to have taken from the Speaker's 
     table the bill, H.R. 2266, with the Senate amendment thereto, 
     and to have concurred in the Senate amendment with the 
     following amendment:
       In lieu of the matter proposed to be inserted by the Senate 
     amendment, insert the following:

     SEC. 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Additional Supplemental 
     Appropriations for Disaster Relief Requirements Act, 2017''.

DIVISION A--ADDITIONAL SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR DISASTER RELIEF 
                        REQUIREMENTS ACT OF 2017

        The following sums are hereby appropriated, out of any 
     money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, and out of 
     applicable corporate or other revenues, receipts, and funds, 
     for the several departments, agencies, corporations, and 
     other organizational units of Government for fiscal year 
     2018, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                    DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

                  Federal Emergency Management Agency

                          disaster relief fund

                     (including transfers of funds)

       For an additional amount for ``Disaster Relief Fund'' for 
     major disasters declared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford 
     Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 
     et seq.), $18,670,000,000, to remain available until 
     expended, of which $10,000,000 shall be transferred to the 
     Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General 
     for audits and investigations related to disasters: Provided, 
     That the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management 
     Agency shall publish on the Agency's website not later than 5 
     days after an award of a public assistance grant under 
     section 406 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
     Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5172) that is in excess 
     of $1,000,000, the specifics of each such grant award: 
     Provided further, That for any mission assignment or mission 
     assignment task order to another Federal department or agency 
     regarding a major disaster in excess of $1,000,000, not later 
     than 5 days after the issuance of such mission assignment or 
     mission assignment task order, the Administrator shall 
     publish on the Agency's website the following: the name of 
     the impacted State, the disaster declaration for such State, 
     the assigned agency, the assistance requested, a description 
     of the disaster, the total cost estimate, and the amount 
     obligated: Provided further, That not later than 10 days 
     after the last day of each month until a mission assignment 
     or mission assignment task order described in the preceding 
     proviso is completed and closed out, the Administrator shall 
     update any changes to the total cost estimate and the amount 
     obligated: Provided further, That for a disaster declaration 
     related to Hurricane Harvey, Hurricane Irma, or Hurricane 
     Maria, the Administrator shall submit to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
     Senate, not later than 5 days after the first day of each 
     month beginning after the date of enactment of this Act, and 
     shall publish on the Agency's website, not later than 10 days 
     after the first day of

[[Page H7990]]

     each such month, an estimate or actual amount, if available, 
     for the current fiscal year of the cost of the following 
     categories of spending: public assistance, individual 
     assistance, operations, mitigation, administrative, and any 
     other relevant category (including emergency measures and 
     disaster resources): Provided further, That not later than 10 
     days after the first day of each month, the Administrator 
     shall publish on the Agency's website the report (referred to 
     as the Disaster Relief Monthly Report) as required by Public 
     Law 114-4.
        Of the amounts provided in this division for the Disaster 
     Relief Fund, up to $4,900,000,000 may be transferred to the 
     Disaster Assistance Direct Loan Program Account for the cost 
     of direct loans as authorized under section 417 of the Robert 
     T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
     U.S.C. 5184) to be used to assist local governments in 
     providing essential services as a result of Hurricanes 
     Harvey, Irma, or Maria: Provided further, That such amounts 
     may subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of 
     direct loans not to exceed $4,900,000,000 under section 417 
     of the Stafford Act: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
     section 417 of the Stafford Act, a territory or possession, 
     and instrumentalities and local governments thereof, of the 
     United States shall be deemed to be a local government for 
     purposes of this paragraph: Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding section 417(b) of the Stafford Act, the 
     amount of any such loan issued to a territory or possession, 
     and instrumentalities and local governments thereof, may be 
     based on the projected loss of tax and other revenues and on 
     projected cash outlays not previously budgeted for a period 
     not to exceed 180 days from the date of the major disaster, 
     and may exceed $5,000,000: Provided further, That 
     notwithstanding any other provision of law or the 
     constitution of a territory or possession that limits the 
     issuance of debt, a territory or possession, and 
     instrumentalities and local governments thereof, may each 
     receive more than one loan with repayment provisions and 
     other terms specific to the type of lost tax and other 
     revenues and on projected unbudgeted cash outlays for which 
     the loan is provided: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
     section 417(c)(1) of the Stafford Act, loans to a territory 
     or possession, and instrumentalities and local governments 
     thereof, may be cancelled in whole or in part only at the 
     discretion of the Secretary of Homeland Security in 
     consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury: Provided 
     further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
     Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the 
     Secretary of the Treasury, shall determine the terms, 
     conditions, eligible uses, and timing and amount of Federal 
     disbursements of loans issued to a territory or possession, 
     and instrumentalities and local governments thereof: Provided 
     further, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
     such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 661a): Provided 
     further, That FEMA may transfer up to 1.5 percent of the 
     amount under this paragraph to the Disaster Assistance Direct 
     Loan Program Account for administrative expenses to carry out 
     under this paragraph the direct loan program, as authorized 
     by section 417 of the Stafford Act: Provided further, That of 
     the amount provided under this paragraph for transfer, up to 
     $150,000,000 may be transferred to the Disaster Assistance 
     Direct Loan Program Account for the cost to lend a territory 
     or possession of the United States that portion of assistance 
     for which the territory or possession is responsible under 
     the cost-sharing provisions of the major disaster declaration 
     for Hurricanes Irma or Maria, as authorized under section 319 
     of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
     Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5162): Provided further, That of 
     the amount provided under this paragraph for transfer, up to 
     $1,000,000 may be transferred to the Disaster Assistance 
     Direct Loan Program Account for administrative expenses to 
     carry out the Advance of Non-Federal Share program, as 
     authorized by section 319 of the Stafford Act.
       The amount provided under this heading is designated by the 
     Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                                TITLE II

                       DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service

                        wildland fire management

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For an additional amount for ``Wildland Fire Management'', 
     $184,500,000, to remain available through September 30, 2021, 
     for urgent wildland fire suppression operations: Provided, 
     That such funds shall be solely available to be transferred 
     to and merged with other appropriations accounts from which 
     funds were previously transferred for wildland fire 
     suppression in fiscal year 2017 to fully repay those amounts: 
     Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                flame wildfire suppression reserve fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For an additional amount for ``FLAME Wildfire Suppression 
     Reserve Fund'', $342,000,000, to remain available through 
     September 30, 2021, for necessary expenses for large wildland 
     fire suppression operations of the Department of Agriculture 
     and as a reserve fund for suppression and Federal emergency 
     response activities: Provided, That notwithstanding the FLAME 
     Act of 2009 (43 U.S.C. 1748a(e)), such funds shall be solely 
     available to be transferred to and merged with other 
     appropriations accounts from which funds were previously 
     transferred for wildland fire suppression in fiscal year 2017 
     to fully repay those amounts: Provided further, That such 
     amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
     emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of 
     the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
     1985.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                        Department-wide Programs

                        wildland fire management

                     (including transfer of funds)

       For an additional amount for ``Wildland Fire Management'', 
     $50,000,000, to remain available until expended, for urgent 
     wildland fire suppression activities and funds necessary to 
     repay any transfers needed for these costs: Provided, That 
     such funds may be available to be transferred to and merged 
     with other appropriations accounts to fully repay amounts 
     previously transferred for wildland fire suppression: 
     Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                               TITLE III

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

       Sec. 301.  Each amount appropriated or made available by 
     this division is in addition to amounts otherwise 
     appropriated for the fiscal year involved.
       Sec. 302.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
     division shall remain available for obligation beyond the 
     current fiscal year unless expressly so provided herein.
       Sec. 303.  The terms and conditions applicable to the funds 
     provided in this division, including those provided by this 
     title, shall also apply to the funds made available in 
     division B of Public Law 115-56.
       Sec. 304.  Each amount designated in this division by the 
     Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall be available only if the 
     President subsequently so designates all such amounts and 
     transmits such designations to the Congress.
       Sec. 305. (a)(1) Not later than December 31, 2017, in 
     accordance with criteria to be established by the Director of 
     the Office of Management and Budget (referred to in this 
     section as ``OMB''), each Federal agency shall submit to OMB, 
     the Government Accountability Office, the respective 
     Inspector General of each agency, and the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     internal control plans for funds provided by this division 
     and division B of Public Law 115-56.
       (2) Not later than March 31, 2018, the Government 
     Accountability Office shall review for the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
     the design of the internal control plans required by 
     paragraph (1).
       (b) All programs and activities receiving funds under this 
     division shall be deemed to be ``susceptible to significant 
     improper payments'' for purposes of the Improper Payments 
     Information Act of 2002 (31 U.S.C. 3321 note), 
     notwithstanding section 2(a) of such Act.
       (c) Funds for grants provided by this division or division 
     B of Public Law 115-56 shall be expended by the grantees 
     within the 24-month period following the agency's obligation 
     of funds for the grant, unless, in accordance with guidance 
     to be issued by the Director of OMB, the Director waives this 
     requirement for a particular grant program and submits a 
     written justification for such waiver to the Committees on 
     Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
     Senate. In the case of such grants, the agency shall include 
     a term in the grant that requires the grantee to return to 
     the agency any funds not expended within the 24-month period.
       Sec. 306. (a) The first proviso under the heading 
     ``Department of Housing and Urban Development--Community 
     Planning and Development--Community Development Fund'' in 
     division B of Public Law 115-56 is amended by striking 
     ``State or unit of general local government'' and inserting 
     ``State, unit of general local government, or Indian tribe 
     (as such term is defined in section 102 of the Housing and 
     Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))''.
       (b) Amounts repurposed pursuant to subsection (a) that were 
     previously designated by the Congress as an emergency 
     requirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985 are designated by the Congress as 
     being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
     251(b)(2)(A)(i) of such Act.
       Sec. 307.  Section 101(a)(7) of division D of Public Law 
     115-56 is amended to read as follows:
       ``(7) The Department of the Interior, Environment, and 
     Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2017 (division G of 
     Public Law 115-31), except the language under the heading 
     `FLAME Wildfire Suppression Reserve Fund' in the Departments 
     of Agriculture and the Interior.''.
       Sec. 308. (a) Notwithstanding sections 1309, 1310, and 
     1310a of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 
     4016 - 4017a) and section 15(e) of the Federal Flood 
     Insurance

[[Page H7991]]

     Act of 1956 (42 U.S.C 2414(e)), and any borrowing agreement 
     entered into between the Department of the Treasury and the 
     Federal Emergency Management Agency, of the indebtedness of 
     the Administrator under any notes or other obligations issued 
     pursuant to section 1309(a) of the National Flood Insurance 
     Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4016(a)) and section 15(e) of the 
     Federal Insurance Act of 1956 (42 U.S.C. 2414(e)) that is 
     outstanding as of the date of the enactment of this Act, an 
     amount of $16,000,000,000 is hereby cancelled. To the extent 
     of the amount cancelled, the Administrator and the National 
     Flood Insurance Fund are relieved of all liability to the 
     Secretary of the Treasury under any such notes or other 
     obligations, including for any interest due under such notes 
     and any other fees and charges payable in connection with 
     such notes, and the total amount of notes and obligations 
     issued by the Administrator pursuant to such sections shall 
     be considered to be reduced by such amount for the purposes 
     of the limitation on such total amount under such section 
     1309(a).
       (b) The amount of the indebtedness cancelled under 
     subsection (a) may be treated as public debt of the United 
     States.
       (c)(1) This section is designated as an emergency 
     requirement pursuant to section 4(g) of the Statutory Pay-As-
     You-Go Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C. 933(g)).
       (2) The amount provided in this section is designated by 
     the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant 
     to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
     Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
       Sec. 309.  Notwithstanding section 19(a)(2)(B) of the Food 
     and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2028), not to exceed 
     $1,270,000,000 of funds made available for the contingency 
     reserve under the heading ``Supplemental Nutrition Assistance 
     Program'' of division A of Public Law 114-113 shall be 
     available for the Secretary to provide a grant to the 
     Commonwealth of Puerto Rico for disaster nutrition assistance 
     in response to the Presidentially declared major disasters 
     and emergencies: Provided, That funds made available to 
     Puerto Rico under this section shall remain available for 
     obligation by the Commonwealth until September 30, 2019, and 
     shall be in addition to funds otherwise made available: 
     Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
     Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to 
     section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985.
       Sec. 310.  Notwithstanding section 2208(l)(3) of title 10, 
     United States Code, during fiscal year 2018, the dollar 
     limitation on advance billing of a customer of a working-
     capital fund in such section shall not apply with respect to 
     the advance billing of the Federal Emergency Management 
     Agency. In the preceding sentence, the term ``advance 
     billing'' has the meaning given the term in section 
     2208(l)(4) of title 10, United States Code.
        This division may be cited as the ``Additional 
     Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Requirements 
     Act of 2017''.

              DIVISION B--BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIP ACT OF 2017

     SECTION 1001. SHORT TITLE.

       This division may be cited as the ``Bankruptcy Judgeship 
     Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 1002. EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY OFFICE OF BANKRUPTCY JUDGES 
                   IN CERTAIN JUDICIAL DISTRICTS.

       (a) Temporary Office of Bankruptcy Judges Authorized by the 
     Bankruptcy Judgeship Act of 2005.--
       (1) Extensions.--The temporary office of bankruptcy judges 
     authorized for the following districts by subsection (b) of 
     the Bankruptcy Judgeship Act of 2005 (28 U.S.C. 152 note) are 
     extended until the applicable vacancy specified in paragraph 
     (2) in the office of a bankruptcy judge for the respective 
     district occurs:
       (A) The district of Delaware.
       (B) The southern district of Florida.
       (C) The district of Maryland.
       (D) The eastern district of Michigan.
       (E) The district of Nevada.
       (F) The eastern district of North Carolina.
       (G) The district of Puerto Rico.
       (H) The eastern district of Virginia.
       (2) Vacancies.--
       (A) Single vacancies.--Except as provided in subparagraphs 
     (B), (C), and (D), the 1st vacancy in the office of a 
     bankruptcy judge for each district specified in paragraph 
     (1)--
       (i) occurring more than 5 years after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, and
       (ii) resulting from the death, retirement, resignation, or 
     removal of a bankruptcy judge,
     shall not be filled.
       (B) District of delaware.--The 1st, 2d, 3d, and 4th 
     vacancies in the office of a bankruptcy judge for the 
     district of Delaware--
       (i) occurring 5 years or more after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, and
       (ii) resulting from the death, retirement, resignation, or 
     removal of a bankruptcy judge,
     shall not be filled.
       (C) District of maryland.--
       (i) The 1st vacancy in the office of a bankruptcy judge for 
     the district of Maryland--

       (I) occurring more than 5 years after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, and
       (II) resulting from the death, retirement, resignation, or 
     removal of a bankruptcy judge,

     shall not be filled.
       (ii) The 2d and 3d vacancies in the office of a bankruptcy 
     judge for the district of Maryland resulting from the death, 
     retirement, resignation, or removal of a bankruptcy judge, 
     shall not be filled.
       (D) Southern district of florida.--The 1st and 2d vacancies 
     in the office of a bankruptcy judge for the southern district 
     of Florida--
       (i) occurring more than 5 years after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, and
       (ii) resulting from the death, retirement, resignation, or 
     removal of a bankruptcy judge,
     shall not be filled.
       (3) Applicability of provisions.--Except as provided in 
     paragraphs (1) and (2), all other provisions of subsection 
     (b) of the Bankruptcy Judgeship Act of 2005 (28 U.S.C. 152 
     note) and section 2 of the Temporary Bankruptcy Judgeships 
     Extension Act of 2012 (28 U.S.C. 152 note) remain applicable 
     to the temporary office of bankruptcy judges referred to in 
     paragraph (1).
       (b) Temporary Office of Bankruptcy Judges Extended by the 
     Bankruptcy Judgeship Act of 2005 and the Temporary Bankruptcy 
     Judgeships Extension Act of 2012.--
       (1) Extensions.--The temporary office of bankruptcy judges 
     authorized by section 3 of the Bankruptcy Judgeship Act of 
     1992 (28 U.S.C. 152 note) and extended by subsection (c) of 
     the Bankruptcy Judgeship Act of 2005 (28 U.S.C. 152 note) and 
     further extended by section 2 of the Temporary Bankruptcy 
     Judgeships Extension Act of 2012 (28 U.S.C. 152 note) for the 
     district of Delaware and the district of Puerto Rico are 
     extended until the applicable vacancy specified in paragraph 
     (2) in the office of a bankruptcy judge for the respective 
     district occurs.
       (2) Vacancies.--
       (A) District of delaware.--The 5th vacancy in the office of 
     a bankruptcy judge for the district of Delaware--
       (i) occurring more than 5 years after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, and
       (ii) resulting from the death, retirement, resignation, or 
     removal of a bankruptcy judge,
     shall not be filled.
       (B) District of puerto rico.--The 2d vacancy in the office 
     of a bankruptcy judge for the district of Puerto Rico--
       (i) occurring more than 5 years after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, and
       (ii) resulting from the death, retirement, resignation, or 
     removal of a bankruptcy judge,
     shall not be filled.
       (3) Applicability of other provisions.--Except as provided 
     in paragraphs (1) and (2), all other provisions of section 3 
     of the Bankruptcy Judgeship Act of 1992 (28 U.S.C. 152 note), 
     subsection (c) of the Bankruptcy Judgeship Act of 2005 (28 
     U.S.C. 152 note), and section 2 of the Temporary Bankruptcy 
     Judgeships Extension Act of 2012 (28 U.S.C. 152 note) remain 
     applicable to the temporary office of bankruptcy judges 
     referred to in paragraph (1).

     SEC. 1003. TEMPORARY OFFICE OF BANKRUPTCY JUDGE AUTHORIZED.

       (a) Appointments.--The following bankruptcy judges shall be 
     appointed in the manner prescribed in section 152(a)(1) of 
     title 28, United States Code, for the appointment of 
     bankruptcy judges provided for in section 152(a)(2) of that 
     title:
       (1) Two additional bankruptcy judges for the district of 
     Delaware.
       (2) One additional bankruptcy judge for the middle district 
     of Florida.
       (3) One additional bankruptcy judge for the eastern 
     district of Michigan.
       (b) Vacancies.--
       (1) District of delaware.--The 6th and 7th vacancies in the 
     office of a bankruptcy judge for the district of Delaware--
       (A) occurring 5 years or more after the appointment date of 
     the bankruptcy judge appointed under subsection (a)(1) to 
     such office, and
       (B) resulting from the death, retirement, resignation, or 
     removal of a bankruptcy judge,
     shall not be filled.
       (2) Middle district of florida.--The 1st vacancy in the 
     office of a bankruptcy judge for the middle district of 
     Florida--
       (A) occurring 5 years or more after the appointment date of 
     the bankruptcy judge appointed under subsection (a)(2) to 
     such office, and
       (B) resulting from the death, retirement, resignation, or 
     removal of a bankruptcy judge,
     shall not be filled.
       (3) Eastern district of michigan.--The 2d vacancy in the 
     office of a bankruptcy judge for the eastern district of 
     Michigan--
       (A) occurring 5 years or more after the appointment date of 
     the bankruptcy judge appointed under subsection (a)(3) to 
     such office, and
       (B) resulting from the death, retirement, resignation, or 
     removal of a bankruptcy judge,
     shall not be filled.

     SEC. 1004. BANKRUPTCY FEES.

       (a) Amendments to Title 28 of the United States Code.--
     Section 1930(a)(6) of title 28, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) by striking ``(6) In'' and inserting ``(6)(A) Except as 
     provided in subparagraph (B), in''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(B) During each of fiscal years 2018 through 2022, if the 
     balance in the United States Trustee System Fund as of 
     September 30 of the most recent full fiscal year is less than 
     $200,000,000, the quarterly fee payable

[[Page H7992]]

     for a quarter in which disbursements equal or exceed 
     $1,000,000 shall be the lesser of 1 percent of such 
     disbursements or $250,000.''.
       (b) Deposits of Certain Fees for Fiscal Years 2018 Through 
     2022.--Notwithstanding section 589a(b) of title 28, United 
     States Code, for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2022--
       (1) 98 percent of the fees collected under section 
     1930(a)(6) of such title shall be deposited as offsetting 
     collections to the appropriation ``United States Trustee 
     System Fund'', to remain available until expended; and
       (2) 2 percent of the fees collected under section 
     1930(a)(6) of such title shall be deposited in the general 
     fund of the Treasury.
       (c) Application of Amendments.--The amendments made by this 
     section shall apply to quarterly fees payable under section 
     1930(a)(6) of title 28, United States Code, as amended by 
     this section, for disbursements made in any calendar quarter 
     that begins on or after the date of enactment of this Act.

     SEC. 1005. CLARIFICATION OF RULE ALLOWING DISCHARGE TO 
                   GOVERNMENTAL CLAIMS ARISING FROM THE 
                   DISPOSITION OF FARM ASSETS UNDER CHAPTER 12 
                   BANKRUPTCIES.

       (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 12 of title 11, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following:

     ``Sec. 1232. Claim by a governmental unit based on the 
       disposition of property used in a farming operation

       ``(a) Any unsecured claim of a governmental unit against 
     the debtor or the estate that arises before the filing of the 
     petition, or that arises after the filing of the petition and 
     before the debtor's discharge under section 1228, as a result 
     of the sale, transfer, exchange, or other disposition of any 
     property used in the debtor's farming operation--
       ``(1) shall be treated as an unsecured claim arising before 
     the date on which the petition is filed;
       ``(2) shall not be entitled to priority under section 507;
       ``(3) shall be provided for under a plan; and
       ``(4) shall be discharged in accordance with section 1228.
       ``(b) For purposes of applying sections 1225(a)(4), 
     1228(b)(2), and 1229(b)(1) to a claim described in subsection 
     (a) of this section, the amount that would be paid on such 
     claim if the estate of the debtor were liquidated in a case 
     under chapter 7 of this title shall be the amount that would 
     be paid by the estate in a chapter 7 case if the claim were 
     an unsecured claim arising before the date on which the 
     petition was filed and were not entitled to priority under 
     section 507.
       ``(c) For purposes of applying sections 523(a), 1228(a)(2), 
     and 1228(c)(2) to a claim described in subsection (a) of this 
     section, the claim shall not be treated as a claim of a kind 
     specified in subparagraph (A) or (B) of section 523(a)(1).
       ``(d)(1) A governmental unit may file a proof of claim for 
     a claim described in subsection (a) that arises after the 
     date on which the petition is filed.
       ``(2) If a debtor files a tax return after the filing of 
     the petition for a period in which a claim described in 
     subsection (a) arises, and the claim relates to the tax 
     return, the debtor shall serve notice of the claim on the 
     governmental unit charged with the responsibility for the 
     collection of the tax at the address and in the manner 
     designated in section 505(b)(1). Notice under this paragraph 
     shall state that the debtor has filed a petition under this 
     chapter, state the name and location of the court in which 
     the case under this chapter is pending, state the amount of 
     the claim, and include a copy of the filed tax return and 
     documentation supporting the calculation of the claim.
       ``(3) If notice of a claim has been served on the 
     governmental unit in accordance with paragraph (2), the 
     governmental unit may file a proof of claim not later than 
     180 days after the date on which such notice was served. If 
     the governmental unit has not filed a timely proof of the 
     claim, the debtor or trustee may file proof of the claim that 
     is consistent with the notice served under paragraph (2). If 
     a proof of claim is filed by the debtor or trustee under this 
     paragraph, the governmental unit may not amend the proof of 
     claim.
       ``(4) A claim filed under this subsection shall be 
     determined and shall be allowed under subsection (a), (b), or 
     (c) of section 502, or disallowed under subsection (d) or (e) 
     of section 502, in the same manner as if the claim had arisen 
     immediately before the date of the filing of the petition.''.
       (b) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
       (1) In general.--Subchapter II of chapter 12 of title 11, 
     United States Code, is amended--
       (A) in section 1222(a)--
       (i) in paragraph (2), by striking ``unless--'' and all that 
     follows through ``the holder'' and inserting ``unless the 
     holder'';
       (ii) in paragraph (3), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (iii) in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (iv) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(5) subject to section 1232, provide for the treatment of 
     any claim by a governmental unit of a kind described in 
     section 1232(a).'';
       (B) in section 1228--
       (i) in subsection (a)--

       (I) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)--

       (aa) by inserting a comma after ``all debts provided for by 
     the plan''; and
       (bb) by inserting a comma after ``allowed under section 503 
     of this title''; and

       (II) in paragraph (2), by striking ``the kind'' and all 
     that follows and inserting ``a kind specified in section 
     523(a) of this title, except as provided in section 
     1232(c).''; and

       (ii) in subsection (c)(2), by inserting ``, except as 
     provided in section 1232(c)'' before the period at the end; 
     and
       (C) in section 1229(a)--
       (i) in paragraph (2), by striking ``or'' at the end;
       (ii) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; or''; and
       (iii) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(4) provide for the payment of a claim described in 
     section 1232(a) that arose after the date on which the 
     petition was filed.''.
       (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections for 
     subchapter II of chapter 12 of title 11, United States Code, 
     is amended by adding at the end the following:

``1232. Claim by a governmental unit based on the disposition of 
              property used in a farming operation.''.
       (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall apply to--
       (1) any bankruptcy case--
       (A) that is pending on the date of enactment of this Act;
       (B) in which the plan under chapter 12 of title 11, United 
     States Code, has not been confirmed on the date of enactment 
     of this Act; and
       (C) relating to which an order of discharge under section 
     1228 of title 11, United States Code, has not been entered; 
     and
       (2) any bankruptcy case that commences on or after the date 
     of enactment of this Act.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from New 
Jersey (Mr. Frelinghuysen) and the gentlewoman from New York (Mrs. 
Lowey) each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New Jersey.


                             General Leave

  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all 
Members have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their 
remarks and to include extraneous material in consideration of H. Res. 
569.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from New Jersey?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today to present H. Res. 569, making additional 
supplemental appropriations for disaster relief requirements for the 
current fiscal year to help respond to recent devastating natural 
disasters.
  Over the past 2 months, millions of Americans have had their lives 
forever altered by destructive hurricanes in Texas, Florida, Puerto 
Rico, and the Virgin Islands, and by raging and deadly wildfires in the 
West.
  We all support those who are victimized, particularly those who lost 
their lives or lost loved ones, and we will continue to be with them 
every step of the way with the Federal support they need as they 
recover and rebuild.
  Our thanks go to the first responders, volunteers, and States who 
saved countless lives, protected communities, and demonstrated the best 
of humanity; that includes FEMA, the Army Corps of Engineers, the 
Department of Defense, the Coast Guard, and many other Federal agencies 
for getting the first installment of relief to those in need.
  However, with such massive, unprecedented damage, more help is 
clearly needed to continue to respond to these recovery efforts, to 
rebuild communities with dollars, with resources, with manpower, and 
with our support.
  This emergency funding legislation, the second installment, addresses 
urgent short-term immediate priorities: replenishing FEMA's Disaster 
Relief Fund, supporting ongoing Federal wildfire suppression efforts, 
providing debt relief for the Federal Flood Insurance Program, and 
other assistance that will help our fellow Americans in their time of 
greatest need.
  To summarize the $36.5 billion in emergency funding provided in this 
bill, in total, $18.7 billion is provided for the Disaster Relief Fund. 
This includes $13.77 billion for the most immediate response needs: 
lifesaving missions, emergency protection, the repair and restoration 
of public infrastructure like communications, power, transportation, 
and, yes, shelter, and financial assistance to individuals and families 
affected as they rebuild their lives.
  This package also includes $4.9 billion for community disaster loans, 
which will ensure local governments are able to provide basic municipal 
services such as police and fire protection and public education 
throughout this trying time.

[[Page H7993]]

  In addition to the Disaster Relief Fund, this bill provides a one-
time payment of $1.27 billion to allow Puerto Rico and our fellow 
citizens to receive the same access to emergency disaster and nutrition 
program benefits that other States receive.
  The bill also ensures that the National Flood Insurance Program is 
able to meet its existing claim obligations as Americans cope with the 
tremendous flood damage to their homes and communities.
  For wildlife suppression, the bill contains $576.5 million. As we 
have seen, the situation out West has grown even more desperate and 
deadly. We must ensure that those heroic firefighters can continue to 
save lives and protect property.
  As we know, the needs of each disaster area are ever changing. 
Consequently, our Appropriations Committee and all of our Members 
continue to monitor the progress of recovery efforts as well as 
anticipate emerging needs.
  This will be a long process, Mr. Speaker, and the second package or 
installment of the Federal support will certainly not be all that is 
needed over the long term.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this bill. It is important for the 
Nation, for the communities affected, and I reserve the balance of my 
time.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 2 minutes.
  Mr. Speaker, since Hurricane Harvey wrought historic flooding in 
Texas, 12 major disasters have been declared. From a hurricane that 
damaged large swaths of Florida, storms that annihilated Puerto Rico 
and the Virgin Islands, and wildfires burning in the West, Americans 
deserve certainty the Federal Government will stand by them in their 
time of need. This is particularly important after the President 
threatened to abandon Puerto Rico in his latest Twitter this morning.
  Congress cannot turn its back on recovery, no matter how reckless the 
President's outburst may be, as Americans are suffering and simply 
trying to survive. This package provides critical disaster relief, 
flood insurance aid, and help for communities devastated by wildfires.

  Puerto Rico would be aided by provisions to address its liquidity 
crisis by facilitating recovery, not paying creditors, and providing 
additional nutrition assistance. Additionally, the bill would continue 
aid to Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands from the Department of 
Defense.
  However, more must be done to provide medium- and long-term 
investments, including rebuilding ports, coastlines, airports, roads, 
bridges, repairing the electrical grid and other infrastructure, and 
ensuring the health needs of American citizens are met.
  I urge your support for this bill and your continued focus on 
ensuring the full recovery of American communities devastated by 
natural disasters.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. Serrano), the distinguished ranking member of the Commerce, 
Justice, Science Appropriations Subcommittee.
  (Mr. SERRANO asked and was given permission to revise and extend his 
remarks.)
  Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member for yielding.
  This bill is a first step in helping Puerto Rico and the Virgin 
Islands recover from the devastation of Hurricane Maria. It will 
provide FEMA and the governments of the islands with the funds needed 
to address immediate relief needs and begin the recovery process.
  I do want to thank the chairman and ranking member for their 
commitment to this issue and for taking my phone calls at all different 
times, on weekends. You have been very helpful and very supportive.

                              {time}  1230

  Both will be visiting the island tomorrow and will be able to see 
firsthand the dramatic and comprehensive needs that Puerto Rico is 
facing.
  Right now, 85 percent of the island still lacks electricity more than 
3 weeks after the hurricane hit. One-third of the island doesn't have 
access to clean drinking water. Most of the island still lacks cellular 
service, hampering the vital information to deliver assistance in the 
areas that are needed.
  Federal employees on the island now are doing important and vital 
work, but we need more boots on the ground. This funding provides them 
with the resources needed to do that in the short term.
  But to succeed, there needs to be a commitment from the highest 
levels of government to ensure the recovery of all areas that are part 
of our Nation, including its territories. Unfortunately, given the 
President's latest Twitter rant this morning, it seems unlikely that we 
have that focus and commitment.
  So it is up to us in Congress to make sure that the Federal 
Government doesn't forget about Puerto Rico, and that is what I intend 
to do in the days and months ahead. But to both of you and to our 
membership here, thank you for not forgetting Puerto Rico. This is an 
ongoing battle and an ongoing issue.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from California (Mr. Calvert), the chairman of the Interior, 
Environment, and Related Agencies Subcommittee on Appropriations.
  Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the supplemental 
appropriations bill.
  I want to commend Chairman Frelinghuysen and the committee staff for 
their quick and thorough work to put this supplemental package 
together, and I thank the leadership for its swift action in scheduling 
this for House consideration.
  In fiscal year 2017, the Forest Service had a shortfall of nearly 
$577 million in firefighting funds. To cover its immediate firefighting 
costs, the Forest Service borrowed from its nonfire programs, as well 
as the Department of the Interior.
  The bill will replace and repay those borrowed funds and close the 
books on fiscal year 2017. Specifically, it provides $526 million for 
the Forest Service and $50 million for the Department of the Interior.
  The cost of fighting fires on our national forests and other public 
lands has increased dramatically over the last 15 years, yet these 
fires and costs remain highly unpredictable.
  Right now the West is on fire. In my home State of California, 
firefighters are battling 22 large wildfires that have burned nearly 
170,000 acres. The bill gives the government the tools it needs to 
assist local officials to get those fires under control as soon as 
possible.
  We, the Congress, need to fix the way we budget for wildland fire so 
that the Forest Service and the Department of the Interior can focus on 
managing our Federal lands appropriately. We also need to give them the 
necessary legal authorities and tools to improve the condition and 
management of our national forests.
  Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to support this bill.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to yield 1 minute to the 
gentlewoman from California (Ms. Roybal-Allard), the ranking member of 
the Homeland Security Subcommittee.
  Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Mr. Speaker, the past few months have witnessed 
one of the most devastating natural disasters ever endured by our 
country. They include hurricanes, voracious wildfires in my home State 
of California that have killed at least 23 people, required mass 
evacuations, and burned more than 170,000 acres and thousands of homes 
and businesses.
  By acting quickly on this emergency supplemental, we are sending a 
strong message that we are here for disaster victims, including our 
fellow citizens in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. But this is 
just a downpayment. We still don't have the final damage estimates for 
many of the affected areas.
  In the coming weeks and months, we will need to once again support 
FEMA's continued recovery efforts, including in Puerto Rico, despite 
the President's threats to abandon the people there. There will be more 
to do to address unmet needs through the Community Development Block 
Grant program and other disaster relief programs.
  Mr. Speaker, I encourage support for this bill.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.

[[Page H7994]]

  

  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to yield 1 minute to the 
gentlewoman from Minnesota (Ms. McCollum), the ranking member of the 
Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Subcommittee.
  (Ms. McCOLLUM asked and was given permission to revise and extend her 
remarks.)
  Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this funding package. 
This bill is a downpayment on the recovery from the recent fires and 
hurricanes.
  I am pleased that it contains $576.5 million to fully repay the funds 
that the U.S. Forest Service borrowed last fiscal year to pay for 
wildfire suppression. We have all seen the devastation and the tragic 
loss of life from large fires burning across our country.
  Fiscal year 2017 was the most expensive year on record for wildfire 
suppression, costing $2.4 billion. As the duration and severity of 
wildfires grows, costs will continue to rise.
  Unfortunately, once again we have missed the opportunity to fix the 
way the Federal Government funds wildfire suppression.
  Let me be clear: the next supplemental must include a legislative fix 
for wildfire spending, and it must adequately support the Department of 
the Interior and its vital efforts to help our country rebuild from the 
recent fires and hurricanes.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to yield 6 minutes to 
the gentlewoman from Puerto Rico (Miss Gonzalez-Colon), whose 
leadership in this time of crisis we all salute.

  Miss GONZALEZ-COLON of Puerto Rico. Mr. Speaker, first, I thank the 
Speaker of the House and the whole leadership, Chairman Frelinghuysen, 
and all of the members from the Appropriations Committee for allowing 
the Federal Government to help Puerto Rico in this dire situation.
  On behalf of the 3.4 million American citizens that live in Puerto 
Rico and the nearly 5.5 million Puerto Ricans that live on the 
mainland, I rise today in strong support of this disaster supplemental 
appropriations bill. They have been focused on Puerto Rico since before 
the arrival of Hurricane Irma, and then during Hurricane Maria.
  I also thank all of my colleagues from both sides of the aisle who 
have reached out during these past 3 weeks to express their 
encouragement and offer their assistance during this process. For that, 
my constituents and I will always be grateful to all of the Members of 
this House.
  As you may know by now, Puerto Rico was hit by two major hurricanes. 
First, Hurricane Irma, which caused significant damage on the eastern 
part of the island. That was on September 6. Then, on September 20, a 
few days later, we got hit by Hurricane Maria, which caused 
unprecedented destruction throughout the whole island and which many 
people consider that hurricane to be the most catastrophic natural 
disaster ever on U.S. soil.
  Today, 22 days after the storm hit, nearly 85 percent of our 
population remains without power, 44 percent without running water, and 
almost 58 percent without access to telecommunications. To this date, 
we still have towns like Las Marias, Maricao, Utuado, and many others 
in the central part of the island, that remain uncommunicated and can 
only be accessed by air since most of the roads and bridges were washed 
away. We are talking about more than 18 major roads and bridges that 
were just washed away. The death toll has reached 48 fatalities, and, 
unfortunately, certainly that number is going to increase in the coming 
days and weeks.
  This unprecedented humanitarian crisis in our own Nation has begun 
what is likely to evolve into a mass exodus of Puerto Ricans to the 
U.S. mainland, further jeopardizing the island's long-term recovery.
  Mr. Speaker, I stand here today telling you that the American 
citizens that live in Puerto Rico still are suffering in different 
ways. This is not the time to focus on how and when resources will be 
withdrawn from Puerto Rico, or how slowly we are going to rebuild the 
island. Today, 85 percent of our island is without electricity, yet 3.4 
million American citizens living there just got less than 15,000 people 
working to recover the power grid. I just want to remind you that 
Florida got more than 61,000 people helping to recover their power grid 
in just 4 days. That is not acceptable in our case, and we are still 
American citizens.
  I know a lot of problems persist. It is too difficult to address the 
issue when you are not part of the mainland, you are not part of the 
power grid. It is different when you get access and resources to Texas, 
Louisiana, or Florida, because you can drive or you can have 
helicopters. In our case, everything is by ship or air. That means it 
is more difficult for the Federal Government to assist directly. That 
is the reason we got more than 15,000 personnel from the Coast Guard, 
National Guard, Army Corps of Engineers, FEMA, Navy, and the assistance 
of all national guards--Virginia, Florida, and New York, just to name a 
few.
  The Puerto Rican communities in the States and on the island are 
showing the way, along with private companies, NGOs, and countless 
volunteers throughout the whole Nation. But there is still a lot that 
needs to be done as we begin the reconstruction. That is the reason 
this supplemental is so important for us.
  Allowing the people of Puerto Rico to access problems that we never 
have before, like SNAP, which will provide $1.3 billion to receive the 
same emergency disaster and nutrition assistance benefits as the 
States, this is the first time this Congress has allowed this to happen 
to Puerto Rico.
  I thank the Members and leadership of the House for allowing this 
money.
  This is the bill that provides for $18.7 billion to FEMA to have the 
disaster relief fund to help in lifesaving missions across the island 
for emergency protection and removal of debris--we continue to have a 
lot of debris on the island--and the repair and restoration of our 
infrastructure. That is going to be a matter of discussion on another 
day because we can't rebuild or redo the infrastructure we did before 
from the fifties or the sixties. We need to redo a lot of things on our 
power grid.
  It will provide also--and this is a very important area--$7.4 billion 
to have liquidity to the local government of Puerto Rico just to match 
Federal funds that are needed to these recovery actions. This is the 
second step this House has taken in terms of helping the people of 
Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, people that are American 
citizens. This is the second step. The first one was the first 
supplemental that was approved.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield an additional 1 minute to the 
gentlewoman.
  Miss GONZALEZ-COLON of Puerto Rico. So this is the second step. This 
is not going to be the last one. We are going to need a lot more help 
in the coming months, and I know we can count on this House and on this 
Congress to make that happen.
  The people of Puerto Rico are grateful, they are resilient, and they 
are going to continue to show us the way to recover. It is going to 
take a lot of time, a lot of resources, a lot of money, and a lot of 
commitment as U.S. citizens, like we are.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I am very pleased to yield 1\1/2\ minutes to 
the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. Wasserman Schultz), the ranking 
member of the Military Construction, Veteran Affairs, and Related 
Agencies Subcommittee.
  Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Speaker, let me just start by saying to 
the people of Puerto Rico: Despite President Trump's indifference and 
soft bigotry, we will be there for the people of Puerto Rico until the 
last American's life returns to normal.
  While I rise to support this critical emergency appropriations bill, 
this supplemental leaves much to be desired. This legislation provides 
vital recovery funds to my home State of Florida, as well as Texas; the 
U.S. Virgin Islands; Puerto Rico; and California, where wildfires 
remain ablaze. However, it neglects to include SBA loans for small 
businesses and homeowners, as well as making smart investments in our 
ports, coastlines, water systems, and electrical grids.
  This bill also neglects to address the devastating agricultural 
losses, especially to Florida's $10 billion citrus industry. It is also 
important to note that, in Florida, this vital funding will not be able 
to address the public health hazard of debris strewn across our

[[Page H7995]]

lawns and streets as Governor Scott shamefully refuses to allow our 
cities to fully access FEMA funds.
  While the majority has said these and other issues can be part of 
future omnibus negotiations, this delay will leave constituents waiting 
months longer to receive the services they so desperately need. They 
should not have to wait.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are reminded to refrain from 
engaging in personalities toward the President.

                              {time}  1245

  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
New York (Ms. Velazquez), the ranking member of the Small Business 
Committee.
  Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank both the gentleman from 
New Jersey, the chairman, and the ranking member from New York for 
their work.
  Mr. Speaker, the people of Puerto Rico, 3.5 million of our fellow 
citizens, are suffering. The mayor of my home town, Yabucoa, where 
Maria made landfall, is predicting that as many as 5,000 residents are 
potentially facing starvation.
  More than 85 percent of the island is without electricity. One-third 
of Puerto Ricans lack access to drinkable water, which will surge the 
number of bacterial infections and mosquito-borne illnesses.
  As Puerto Rico faces this humanitarian crisis, the President of the 
United States is tweeting out threats to withdraw assistance. That is 
an outrage. It is an insult. It is an abdication of the President's 
solemn duty to protect the safety and security of the American people. 
American citizens everywhere deserve better.
  Where the President is failing to lead, Congress must act, and act 
now.
  The legislation we are debating today is far from sufficient. It is 
not enough, but it is a start. It is a downpayment in helping the 
response process. It will keep FEMA operating, removing debris and 
distributing food and water.
  It also helps Puerto Rico's Government address a looming cash 
shortfall. With the government running out of money by November 1, 
vital services could be suspended when residents can least afford it.
  This bill would provide a short-term cash infusion for the government 
to keep going. The way this assistance is structured under the law, 
these funds will likely not be paid back, which is reasonable, given 
the challenges Puerto Rico faces. Some of those challenges have been 
created by the lack of action of the Congress when it comes to 
Medicaid.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield the gentlewoman an additional 30 
seconds.
  Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, let's be clear. There is going to need to 
be much more assistance in the future. Puerto Rico will need help 
rebuilding its energy grid, repairing telecommunications networks, and 
putting its ports, bridges, and roads back together, and we cannot 
forget shoring up the island's Medicaid system, something that was 
critical before Maria, but is even more important now.
  This problem is of Congress' making, and we must fix it. Make no 
mistake. Those priorities will require more money, and we will need to 
come back and address them in a few weeks.
  The people of Puerto Rico are American citizens. And, you know, what? 
Even when so many of my brothers and sisters are suffering in Puerto 
Rico, are facing a humanitarian crisis, at last, 50 percent of the 
people in this country who didn't know that Puerto Ricans are American 
citizens are learning that fact.
  Yes, American citizens, when, in 1898, Puerto Rico was invaded and 
taken over by the U.S. Government. So now it is our responsibility to 
make Puerto Rico whole.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are once again reminded to refrain 
from engaging in personalities toward the President.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman 
from Florida (Mr. Diaz-Balart), chairman of the Transportation, Housing 
and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Subcommittee on 
Appropriations.
  Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Speaker, I want to start by first recognizing 
one of our own, who has been a superb representative for Puerto Rico in 
these very difficult times. You rarely see somebody with the talent, 
the energy of the representative of Puerto Rico here in Congress. Miss 
Gonzalez-Colon has been, frankly, a hero, and I just wanted to mention 
that, because she has really made all of us understand the situation, 
and she has done so with great dignity and great passion and great 
brilliance. I just had to say that.
  Mr. Speaker, let me first thank the chairman for being incredibly 
accessible and engaged. Florida has gotten hit rather hard, as you 
know. This bill totals $36.5 billion. $18.67 billion of that goes 
directly to FEMA's Disaster Relief Fund, and it also ensures that our 
National Flood Insurance Program has the resources that it needs to pay 
the claims, also an important grant food and aid loan eligibility to 
Puerto Rico, which is crucial.
  So far, Mr. Speaker, Florida has received $740 million for assistance 
for individuals through FEMA, and is working through over 608,000 
applicants. Think about that.
  As we continue to recover, again, I look forward to continue working 
with the chairman, who has been phenomenal.
  Specifically, we are going to have to deal with the agricultural 
impact of this storm, and again, particularly on the citrus industry, 
that has been devastated by this storm.
  This is an important bill. It is an important bill. I want to thank 
the chairman for bringing it up so quickly. We must pass it. I look 
forward to working with Chairman Frelinghuysen and with all our 
colleagues through this process, because we are going to need more 
assistance as the days and the months go.
  So this is an important bill. I urge your support.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Maryland (Mr. Hoyer), the Democratic whip.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding, and I 
rise in support of this legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, millions of our fellow Americans in Texas, Florida, 
Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands are looking to Congress and the 
administration to work together to provide aid and assistance in 
recovery and rebuilding.

  I disagree with the President of the United States that we are going 
to leave Puerto Rico or the Virgin Islands or any other American 
precipitously before we have done the job we need to do.
  The recent hurricanes have left 3.6 million Americans in Puerto Rico 
and the U.S. Virgin Islands still without power, fuel, clean water, 
food, electricity, and access to medical facilities. That is 
unacceptable, I say to the administration.
  We are witnessing a humanitarian disaster of historic proportions, 
and it will get worse if we do not come together as a nation and bring 
to bear the full force of the Federal Government to assist.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for bringing this bill to the floor 
to effect that end.
  That is why I have called on President Trump to muster every Federal 
resource, to muster and ensure that aid and supplies can reach those 
who need them, and to work on restoring power, water, and 
communications. Because many are still out of reach, we do not yet know 
the full extent of the damage and loss of life.
  Today's Washington Post has a front page story chronicling the 
tragedy that continues as of now to unfold in Puerto Rico, where 
nightfall brings complete darkness, and diseases are spreading by way 
of contaminated water. The island has been plunged into the 19th 
century. The Virgin Islands shares that status.
  This supplemental must be followed in the weeks and months ahead by 
additional measures to provide disaster relief funding and financial 
assistance to bring the infrastructure of Puerto Rico and the U.S. 
Virgin Islands up to 21st century standards in order to prevent a 
repeat of what has occurred.
  According to a letter sent to the congressional leadership on October 
7, by the governor of Puerto Rico, Ricardo Rossello, the damage of that 
island is

[[Page H7996]]

estimated to cost as much as $95 billion, which is 150 percent of 
Puerto Rico's gross national product.
  This funding package is an important step, though it fails to provide 
urgently needed Medicaid funding to help the 1.6 million in Puerto Rico 
and the U.S. Virgin Islands who rely on Medicaid for their healthcare.
  Congress must do its part and ensure that the resources are 
available, but it is up to the administration to make certain that the 
resources we provide get to those who need them.
  So I ask my colleagues to join me in passing this bill, and I call on 
the President again to take every necessary measure to address this 
humanitarian crisis affecting our fellow Americans.
  Mr. President, do not send a message to any American that we will 
turn our backs on them. That is not fair, it is not right, and you 
ought to correct the statement you made this morning.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are reminded to address their 
remarks to the Chair.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from 
Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee).
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, Puerto Rico has no power. The U.S. 
Virgin Islands has no power. St. Johns is completely collapsed in the 
U.S. Virgin Islands. The people are dying from contaminated water.
  Mr. President, how can you abandon the American people?
  This bill is going to provide FEMA assistance to keep giving so they 
can have it. It is going to give $16 billion to the senior citizens in 
my district, who have paid their flood insurance, who are desperate to 
get their houses repaired, to get the mold out after being impacted by 
Hurricane Harvey.
  Yes, I woke up this morning to the outrage of the fires and people 
dying in California. That is what is in this bill.
  I can't imagine that a President would make this comment of walking 
away, but I am here to fight for those who have been impacted by 
Hurricane Harvey. We are still suffering. Senior citizens are out of 
their homes. We have been evicting people in public housing. We need 
community development block grants. The Army Corps of Engineers is 
greatly needed.
  The funding that we ask for is not in here, block grants is not in 
here, and as well the restoration that we need. We will fight. I will 
not turn my back on Puerto Rico or the Virgin Islands and vote ``no''. 
I will vote ``yes''----
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentlewoman is out of order.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. And help Americans, but Hurricane Harvey has to be 
in the next bill.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentlewoman is no longer recognized.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. * * *
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are reminded to heed the gavel.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
the Virgin Islands (Ms. Plaskett), who I believe just returned.
  Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Frelinghuysen and Ranking 
Member Lowey for bringing more disaster relief legislation to the floor 
today.
  I am pleased to see much-needed support for ongoing disaster response 
efforts in the Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, and other hurricane-
affected areas, including direct assistance to families, debris removal 
operations, and emergency protective measures carried out by FEMA, and 
additional activities of numerous other Federal agencies that are on 
the ground working around the clock to help us to recover and rebuild.
  I cannot thank enough all of our Federal and local personnel helping 
us through this. I have been on the ground after Irma, after Maria, and 
just recently, and I tell you, their support is invaluable.
  I am particularly pleased to see the subdivision of $5 billion for 
Disaster Direct Loan Program to assist local governments and with 
measures taking into account the unique aid and flexibility needed for 
the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico.
  Multiple loans will be available based on different types of losses 
and unanticipated spending needs, and waivers of amount limits are also 
helpful. Additional loans to pay for local matching requirements is an 
important support.
  However, I am deeply concerned about the important relief that was 
left out of this bill and the administration's disaster relief request 
last week. This does not incorporate the medium and long-term 
assistance that played a clear critical role in the recovery following 
previous disasters like Katrina and Sandy, and the Virgin Islands 
cannot afford to wait for this to be a higher priority of the Federal 
Government.
  The package does not include community development and social service 
block grant funding, Economic Development Administration funds, 
supplemental housing assistance, nor additional funds for repair of our 
water infrastructure, ports, community facilities, airports, roads, 
parks, wetlands, and fisheries.
  Damage sustained in all of these areas has been catastrophic, and 
waiting around until another end of the year for auxiliary funding for 
these pressing needs is not acceptable.
  Perhaps most concerning is the lack of Medicaid program assistance to 
the territory. Even before two consecutive Category 5 hurricanes that 
decimated our hospitals and medical infrastructure, the Virgin Islands 
was forced to operate a Medicaid program that is capped in an amount 
that has no relationship to local needs, and our rate of Federal 
matching funds, our FMAP, is limited to an arbitrarily low 55 percent 
Federal to 45 percent local contribution.

                              {time}  1300

  Thousands of our citizens go without adequate care due to this 
treatment every year, in addition to the impacts on our providers and 
hospitals due to uncompensated care, but after these back-to-back 
storms, there is no revenue being generated in the Virgin Islands and 
Puerto Rico at this time. Our tourism-related economy is gone. We will 
miss this entire year, at the very least.
  With our public health and social welfare needs, we are in dire need 
of supplemental Medicaid support, including a temporary 100 percent 
Federal contribution, just like what was provided to Americans living 
in Louisiana and Texas following Katrina.
  I was pleased to see Ranking Member Pallone's proposal to provide 
this 100 percent temporary Federal share with a substantial plus-up to 
our allotment so that the American citizens--yes, American citizens--in 
the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico can have the benefit of Medicaid in 
this time of greatest need.
  This has not been a part of this package. Virgin Islanders cannot 
wait until Christmas for a Medicaid program. We need it now.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. Maxine Waters), the ranking member of the Committee on 
Financial Services.
  Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. Mr. Speaker, in the wake of the 
destruction that this historic hurricane season has wrought on Texas, 
Florida, the Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, and the Gulf Coast, I am very 
pleased that, in addition to the emergency relief funds for wildfires 
that are burning on both ends of California, the bill also includes 
liquidity and emergency nutritional assistance for Puerto Rico, where 
they are facing particularly difficult challenges in their recovery 
efforts. This bill also provides for partial debt forgiveness of $16 
billion for the National Flood Insurance Program.
  I am encouraged to see that the administration finally understands 
what we have been saying for a long time: we need to forgive the debt 
of the NFIP, which FEMA has repeatedly stated it will never be able to 
repay.
  Following the losses that will be incurred as a result of the recent 
hurricanes, the NFIP needs debt forgiveness more than ever. But let's 
be clear. The partial debt forgiveness will leave the NFIP with a 
crushing level of debt. Although this is a step in the right direction, 
we should forgive all of the debt that the NFIP has accrued from 
catastrophic storms like Katrina and Sandy instead of burdening the 
NFIP policyholders with hundreds of millions of dollars in interest 
payments every year.

[[Page H7997]]

  Before this hurricane season, NFIP policyholders were already paying 
more in interest than the entire NFIP spends on salaries and expenses 
or funding mitigation or paying for flood maps.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. Lee), a senior member of the Appropriations Committee.
  Ms. LEE. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank our ranking member for yielding 
time to me and for her tireless leadership.
  Mr. Speaker, as a Representative from northern California, let me 
just say that my thoughts and prayers are with our neighbors in the 
North Bay.
  I remember the Oakland Hills. I represent Oakland and Berkeley, 
California; and just as many helped us then, we will help our neighbors 
now.
  I am deeply grateful to our firefighters and our first responders who 
have been working around the clock to extinguish these fires.
  Mr. Speaker, I also rise in strong support of this emergency 
supplemental. Our neighbors in the North Bay, the Gulf Coast, Puerto 
Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Texas, they need our help, and they need 
it now. Communities are devastated, and many are still without power 
and water. This is a life-and-death situation for so many.
  Make no mistake, the recovery process is just beginning, and we 
cannot forget our Caribbean neighbors who are also suffering.
  Mr. Speaker, the supplemental is a good first step. It is a good 
first step in a very long process, but we must provide more long-term 
assistance to help communities rebuild and to help them recover very 
quickly, and we must leave no one behind.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to be here with my partner, our 
chairman, Mr. Frelinghuysen. I know that he understands, as we all do, 
this is not a Republican or Democratic issue. This is our 
responsibility, to face the tremendous challenge that we see: people 
are suffering, schools are closed, more than three-quarters of the 
island does not have any energy, no clean water, need for food, need 
for basic services.
  I am very pleased to work with the chairman of the committee, Mr. 
Frelinghuysen, and I know that we will both be going to the island of 
Puerto Rico to actually see firsthand what has to be done, and it is 
clear it has to be done now.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. Smucker).
  Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Speaker, I had the opportunity to travel to Puerto 
Rico this past Saturday with a bipartisan group of legislators. We 
traveled there with Resident Commissioner Gonzalez-Colon, who has been 
an absolutely outstanding advocate for Puerto Rico during this 
difficult time. I have a few takeaways from that:
  One, it was a sobering experience to see how widespread the 
devastation is on the island. Every single aspect of the island of 
Puerto Rico was affected.
  Secondly, the full commitment of the Department of Defense, of FEMA, 
of every Federal Government agency and the effort to recover that is 
being conducted in conjunction with the Governor and folks on the 
ground in Puerto Rico is great to see. It is an effective initial 
recovery effort that has saved and has sustained lives. Millions of 
meals and millions of bottles of water have been distributed.

  A third takeaway is this will require a sustained active and 
effective effort.
  I want to thank the chairman for introducing this bill today, which 
is absolutely necessary to bring back the economy on the island of 
Puerto Rico. The top priority now is to rebuild the grid, which is 
absolutely essential to getting the economy in Puerto Rico moving. That 
is why we need this aid package. It is an important step along the long 
road to recovery for our fellow citizens in Puerto Rico, as well as for 
all of those impacted by hurricanes in the South and those out West 
battling wildfires.
  One thing I saw as well: the American people come to the assistance 
of other citizens in need, and that is true whether it is in Houston, 
Florida, or in Puerto Rico.
  Again, I would like to thank the chair for introducing this 
legislation, and I urge my colleagues to support it.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, I would like to associate my remarks 
with the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Smucker) as well as with my 
colleague from New York (Mrs. Lowey).
  On our committee, we try to get the work of the Nation done, and at 
this point in history we have had some incredible tragedies and natural 
disasters. As a group, as this House, we must act quickly to ensure 
that the Federal Government fulfills its duty to millions of Americans 
in need. Whether they are from Texas or whether they are from Florida 
or whether they are from Puerto Rico or the Virgin Islands, they are 
all citizens. Whether they are from the West, who have been fighting 
these deadly fires, they deserve our support.
  This will be the second installment of emergency funding. There will 
be others. I know people are concerned that not every State's needs are 
met, but this is a good step in the right direction, and I urge all my 
colleagues to support this legislation so we can get this money out the 
door as quickly as possible.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise to stand with the 
hundreds of thousands of Texas families victimized by Hurricane Harvey, 
and urge our state and federal officials to use available resources to 
help our fellow Americans in their time of need.
  With nearly four-and-a-half feet of rain and 130 mile per hour winds, 
Hurricane Harvey is the largest and most expensive natural disaster to 
hit Texas in living memory. At least 270,000 homes and residences were 
damaged in our state. Most tragically, over 75 innocent people lost 
their lives as a result of Harvey, most of them in Harris County.
  Later today the U.S. House of Representatives will be voting on a 
$36.5 billion disaster supplemental bill to sustain relief and recovery 
efforts in Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
  This is not a perfect bill. I would have strongly preferred Congress 
provide dedicated funds to rebuild Houston and the Texas Gulf Coast, 
especially dedicated funding towards our region's flood control 
infrastructure and immediate housing needs for hurricane victims.
  However, this supplemental will sustain the current recovery efforts 
till the damages caused by these devastating hurricanes can be fully 
assessed. Today's supplemental is on top of $15 billion in emergency 
funding Congress passed last month in the immediate aftermath of 
Harvey.
  The bipartisan Texas Congressional Delegation is committed to 
securing the substantial federal funds Houston and the Texas Gulf Coast 
need to rebuild and be prepared for the next big storm before the 
holiday season.
  Our local officials, in particular the Governor of Texas and the 
state legislature, have the opportunity right now to act and ramp-up 
rebuilding efforts through our state's Economic Stabilization Fund.
  Popularly known as Texas's ``rainy day fund,'' the ESF currently has 
over $10 billion available for emergencies. There can be no question 
that the destruction caused by Harvey and the immediate needs of tens 
of thousands of Texans are an emergency and are the reason why our 
state has been investing in a rainy day fund in the first place.
  Harris County Judge Ed Emmett and Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner have 
already called on Governor Greg Abbott to use his authority to tap the 
rainy day fund and help Texans in need and rebuild our infrastructure.
  I join Judge Emmett and Mayor Turner in calling on the governor to 
immediately authorize emergency funding through our rainy day fund and 
help rebuild Houston and Harris County.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Rogers of Kentucky). The question is on 
the motion offered by the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Frelinghuysen) 
that the House suspend the rules and agree to the resolution, H. Res. 
569.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

[[Page H7998]]

  

                          ____________________



