

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 169 (Thursday, October 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 169 (Thursday, October 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6700]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO MEET

  Mr. TOOMEY. Mr. President, I have 5 requests for committees to meet 
during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of the 
Majority and Minority leaders.
  Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 5(a), of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, the following committees are authorized to meet during today's 
session of the Senate:


                        Committee on Agriculture

  The Committee on Agriculture is authorized to meet during the session 
of the Senate on Thursday, October 19, 2017, at 2 p.m., in room S-1216, 
to conduct a hearing the following nominations: Gregory Ibach, of 
Nebraska, to be Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs, 
and William Northey, of Iowa, to be Under Secretary for Farm and 
Foreign Agricultural Services, both of the Department of Agriculture.


                      Committee on Armed Services

  The Committee on Armed Services is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, October 19, 2017, at 9:30 a.m., in 
open and closed session to receive testimony on the roles and 
responsibilities for defending the nation from cyberattack.


          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

  The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions is authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate on Thursday, October 19, 2017, 
at 10 a.m., in room SD-430, to conduct a hearing entitled ``Examining 
How Healthy Choices Can Improve Health Outcomes and Reduce Costs.''


                     Committee on Foreign Relations

  The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, October 19, 2017, at 10:30 a.m. to 
hold a hearing entitled ``Food Aid.''


                       Committee on the Judiciary

  The Committee on the Judiciary is authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate on Thursday, October 19, 2017, at 10 a.m., in 
room SD-226 to conduct a hearing on the following nominations: 
Stephanos Bibas, of Pennsylvania, to be United States Circuit Judge for 
the Third Circuit, Allison H. Eid, of Colorado, to be United States 
Circuit Judge for the Tenth Circuit, Annemarie Carney Axon, to be 
United States District Judge for the Northern District of Alabama, 
Michael Lawrence Brown, to be United States District Judge for the 
Northern District of Georgia, Thomas Alvin Farr, to be United States 
District Judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina, William M. 
Ray II, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of 
Georgia, Liles Clifton Burke, to be United States District Judge for 
the Northern District of Alabama, Walter David Counts III, to be United 
States District Judge for the Western District of Texas, Michael Joseph 
Juneau, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of 
Louisiana, A. Marvin Quattlebaum, Jr., to be United States District 
Judge for the District of South Carolina, Karen Gren Scholer, to be 
United States District Judge for the Northern District of Texas, Tilman 
Eugene Self III, to be United States District Judge for the Middle 
District of Georgia, and John C. Demers, of Virginia, to be an 
Assistant Attorney General, Scott C. Blader, to be United States 
Attorney for the Western District of Wisconsin, Mark A. Klaassen, to be 
United States Attorney for the District of Wyoming, William C. Lamar, 
to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Mississippi, 
John R. Lausch, Jr., to be United States Attorney for the Northern 
District of Illinois, and J. Douglas Overbey, to be United States 
Attorney for the Eastern District of Tennessee, all of the Department 
of Justice.

                          ____________________



