

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H10418-H10419]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Jeffries, 
             Mr. Crowley, Mrs. Black, Mr. Cohen, Mrs. Blackburn, 
             Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Sessions, Mr. 
             Fleischmann, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Cooper, and Ms. Bass):
       H.R. 4706. A bill to amend title 17, United States Code, to 
     provide clarity and modernize the licensing system for 
     musical works under section 115 and to ensure fairness in the 
     establishment of certain rates and fees under sections 114 
     and 115 of such title, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania (for himself 
             and Mr. Graves of Georgia):
       H.R. 4707. A bill to authorize a joint assessment of 
     quantity of precision guided munitions for use by Israel, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Armed Services, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. McCAUL (for himself, Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi, Mr. Katko, and Mr. Higgins of 
             Louisiana):
       H.R. 4708. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to require the Secretary of Homeland Security to issue 
     Department of Homeland Security-wide guidance and develop 
     training programs as part of the Department of Homeland 
     Security Blue Campaign, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH:
       H.R. 4709. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to amend the Federal medical assistance percentage for 
     the District of Columbia for fiscal years after 2019, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. BUCSHON (for himself and Mr. Peters):
       H.R. 4710. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     establish a moratorium on the registration of certain new 
     340B hospitals and associated sites, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. BARR (for himself, Mr. Himes, and Mr. Polis):
       H.R. 4711. A bill to create protections for depository 
     institutions that provide financial services to industrial 
     hemp legitimate businesses, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself, Mr. Abraham, Mr. 
             Aderholt, Mr. Arrington, Mr. Babin, Mr. Bacon, Mr. 
             Banks of Indiana, Mr. Barletta, Mr. Bost, Mr. Brady 
             of Texas, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Collins of New York, Mr. 
             Collins of Georgia, Mr. Conaway, Mr. Cramer, Mr. 
             Davidson, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Flores, 
             Ms. Foxx, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. Gosar, Mr. 
             Harris, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Hudson, Mr. 
             Huizenga, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Jones, Mr. Jordan, 
             Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Lamborn, Mr. Luetkemeyer, Mr. Marshall, Mr. Mitchell, 
             Mr. Mullin, Mrs. Noem, Mr. Norman, Mr. Olson, Mr. 
             Palazzo, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. 
             Rokita, Mr. Roskam, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. Smith of New 
             Jersey, Mr. Stewart, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Walker, Mrs. 
             Walorski, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Webster of Florida, 
             Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, Mr. Wittman, Mr. Yoder, 
             Mr. Moolenaar, and Mr. Emmer):
       H.R. 4712. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     prohibit a health care practitioner from failing to exercise 
     the proper degree of care in the case of a child who survives 
     an abortion or attempted abortion; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. KINZINGER (for himself, Mr. Cooper, Ms. Jenkins 
             of Kansas, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Sanford, Mr. Pittenger, and 
             Ms. Sinema):
       H.R. 4713. A bill to increase the long-term fiscal 
     accountability of direct spending legislation; to the 
     Committee on the Budget, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Rules, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GOHMERT (for himself, Mr. Brady of Texas, Ms. 
             Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Smith of Texas, 
             Mr. Barton, Mr. Ratcliffe, Mr. Carter of Texas, Mr. 
             Poe of Texas, Mr. Babin, Mr. Burgess, Mr. Weber of 
             Texas, Mr. Marchant, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Farenthold, 
             Mr. Arrington, Mr. Flores, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, 
             Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. McCaul, Ms. Granger, Mr. 
             Williams, Mr. Conaway, Mr. Olson, Mr. Hurd, Mr. 
             Thornberry, Mr. Cuellar, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Sam 
             Johnson of Texas, and Mr. Culberson):
       H.R. 4714. A bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal to 
     Don and Deyon Stephens, Founders of Mercy Ships, in 
     recognition of nearly 40 years of service as the leaders of a 
     humanitarian relief organization that exemplifies the 
     compassionate character of America; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Roskam, Mr. Bishop 
             of Georgia, Mr. Delaney, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Peters, Mr. 
             Tonko, Mr. Engel, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Connolly, and Mr. 
             Sean Patrick Maloney of New York):
       H.R. 4715. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to require certain institutions of higher education to 
     provide notice of tuition levels for students; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.

[[Page H10419]]

  

           By Mr. COSTA (for himself, Mr. Cook, Mr. Ruiz, and Mr. 
             Young of Alaska):
       H.R. 4716. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to inter in 
     national cemeteries individuals who supported the United 
     States in Laos during the Vietnam War era, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CRAWFORD (for himself, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Westerman, 
             Mr. Womack, and Mr. Hill):
       H.R. 4717. A bill to require the Secretary of Agriculture 
     to establish a program to recognize farms that have been in 
     continuous operation for 100 years; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.
           By Mr. DeSANTIS (for himself, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. 
             Duncan of South Carolina, Mrs. Hartzler, Mr. Gohmert, 
             Mr. McClintock, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. 
             Wenstrup, Mr. Rokita, Mr. Jordan, Mr. Gosar, Mr. 
             Pittenger, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mrs. 
             Walorski, Ms. McSally, Ms. Tenney, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. 
             Smith of Nebraska, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Meadows, Mr. 
             Rothfus, Mr. Messer, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Harris, Mr. 
             Donovan, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Williams, Mr. 
             Ferguson, and Mrs. Blackburn):
       H.R. 4718. A bill to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of 
     Israel and to transfer to Jerusalem the United States Embassy 
     located in Tel Aviv; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee (for himself and Mr. Cohen):
       H.R. 4719. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     address delays in commercial driver's license skills testing 
     and retesting, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. EMMER (for himself, Mrs. Handel, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, 
             and Mr. Walz):
       H.R. 4720. A bill to authorize the Office on Violence 
     Against Women to improve the handling of crimes of domestic 
     violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking by 
     incorporating a trauma-informed approach into the initial 
     response to and investigation of such crimes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr. Vargas, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Speier, Mr. Grijalva, and Mr. 
             Cohen):
       H.R. 4721. A bill to enact into law a framework for 
     deciding whether certain projectiles are ``primarily intended 
     for sporting purposes'' for purposes of determining whether 
     the projectiles are armor piercing ammunition; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FASO (for himself and Ms. Slaughter):
       H.R. 4722. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 111 Market Street in 
     Saugerties, New York, as the ``Maurice D. Hinchey Post Office 
     Building''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. GOSAR (for himself, Mr. Biggs, Ms. Sinema, Mr. 
             Schweikert, and Mr. O'Halleran):
       H.R. 4723. A bill to approve the settlement of water rights 
     claims of the Hualapai Tribe and certain allottees in the 
     State of Arizona, to authorize construction of a water 
     project relating to those water rights claims, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. HOLDING (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Lance, 
             Mr. Butterfield, and Mr. Meehan):
       H.R. 4724. A bill to provide for a demonstration project to 
     further examine the benefits of providing coverage and 
     payment for items and services necessary to administer 
     intravenous immune globulin (IVIG) in the home, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HULTGREN (for himself and Mr. Barr):
       H.R. 4725. A bill to amend the Federal Deposit Insurance 
     Act to require short form call reports for certain depository 
     institutions; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself and Mr. Cicilline):
       H.R. 4726. A bill to amend the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
     Conservation and Management Act to add Rhode Island to the 
     Mid-Atlantic Fishery Management Council; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico:
       H.R. 4727. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to assign temporary 
     disability ratings to certain veterans for purposes of 
     compensation and health care, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico:
       H.R. 4728. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     establish the office of the Health Monitor of the Department 
     of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself, 
             Mr. Khanna, Mr. Cummings, Ms. Norton, Ms. Shea-
             Porter, Mr. Connolly, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. 
             Raskin, Mr. Suozzi, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Ms. 
             Moore, Mrs. Dingell, and Mr. Pallone):
       H.R. 4729. A bill to require annual reporting by employers 
     of the number of settlements with employees regarding claims 
     of discrimination on the basis of sex, including verbal and 
     physical sexual harassment, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. McSALLY (for herself, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Biggs, 
             Mr. Gosar, and Mr. Issa):
       H.R. 4730. A bill to amend the Clean Air Act with respect 
     to nonattainment plan provisions, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. PLASKETT:
       H.R. 4731. A bill to extend the retained use estate for the 
     Caneel Bay resort in St. John, United States Virgin Islands, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. REICHERT (for himself and Mr. Pascrell):
       H.R. 4732. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
     to mint a coin in commemoration of the opening of the 
     National Law Enforcement Museum in the District of Columbia, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. WELCH (for himself and Mr. McKinley):
       H.R. 4733. A bill to establish and fund an Opioids and STOP 
     Pain Initiative to expand, intensify, and coordinate 
     fundamental, translational, and clinical research of the 
     National Institutes of Health with respect to opioid abuse, 
     the understanding of pain, and the discovery and development 
     of safer and more effective treatments and preventive 
     interventions for pain; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on the Budget, 
     and Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. LAMBORN (for himself, Mr. Roskam, Mr. DeSantis, 
             Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Cramer, 
             Mr. Norman, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Jenkins of 
             West Virginia, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Farenthold, 
             Mr. Rokita, Ms. Tenney, Mr. Pittenger, and Mr. 
             Meadows):
       H. Res. 671. A resolution expressing strong disapproval of 
     the adoption of United Nations General Assembly Resolution A/
     ES-10/L.22, which rejects United States recognition of 
     Jerusalem as the capital of Israel; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. JAYAPAL (for herself, Ms. Bass, Ms. Blunt 
             Rochester, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mr. Cardenas, Ms. 
             Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. 
             DelBene, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Evans, Miss 
             Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto Rico, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             Heck, Mr. Jeffries, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of 
             Texas, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Kildee, 
             Mr. King of New York, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Larsen of 
             Washington, Ms. Lee, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Meng, Mrs. Murphy 
             of Florida, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Sarbanes, 
             Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Soto, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, and Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California):
       H. Res. 672. A resolution honoring Edgar Martinez for 
     excellence in his career as a professional baseball player 
     and for his entrepreneurship, humanitarian work, and 
     philanthropy, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. HILL (for himself, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Trott, 
             Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Sherman, and Mrs. Carolyn B. 
             Maloney of New York):
       H. Res. 673. A resolution expressing concern over attacks 
     on Coptic Christians in Egypt; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.

                          ____________________



