

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S8147-S8148]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                          RECOGNIZING DOUBLE L

 Mr. RISCH. Madam President, my great State of Idaho is known 
for excelling in many areas. We are a proud incubator of the American 
entrepreneurial spirit, with Idaho consistently being ranked as one of 
the friendliest States in the Nation for small businesses. Idaho is 
also renowned for our State vegetable, the potato. Millions of people 
around the world know that Idaho potatoes are in a class of their own. 
It is only natural that the innovation that Idaho is known for would 
lead a small business on a mission to assist potato farmers. As the 
chairman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and 
Entrepreneurship, it is my pleasure to recognize Double L as the Senate 
Small Business of the Month for December 2017. Double L maintains a 
global presence while staying true to the core values of its farming 
roots in order to enable potato farmers to increase production, expand 
their harvest, and to achieve their American Dream.
  Double L was originally founded in 1976 by potato growers Leland 
Klinger and Lynn Johnson, who initially started the company by building 
equipment

[[Page S8148]]

that would meet their own specific needs after being disappointed with 
the machines currently on the market. It was this entrepreneurial 
spirit that drove the two to expand into other handling equipment, and 
the rest is history. In the years since then, Double L has never lost 
the original manufacturing mindset with which the company was founded, 
while the company and its employees have certainly expanded their 
horizons.
  In 2004, Chris Hunsaker became CEO of Double L and immediately sought 
an expansion of both manufacturing and clientele, leading the company 
to move from its original home in American Falls to Heyburn, ID. With 
the upbringing of a farmer and the training of a salesman, Chris has 
ensured that Double L has remained steadfast in its commitment to 
personalized service for each customer. For example, Double L does not 
maintain a standing inventory. Each order is built per the customer's 
specific wants and needs. Additionally, Double L has a commitment to 
excellence from providing a safe working environment for their 
employees, to catering to the unique needs of farmers and the equipment 
that they need. This company has proven consistently over time that, 
when the market sees a demand for a particular product or service, it 
is American entrepreneurs like those at Double L who will provide the 
solution.
  With considerable success and trust earned from Double L's loyal 
clients, the company is still moving forward. Double L has shipped its 
equipment built in the United States to countries such as China, 
Thailand, New Zealand, Australia, Turkey, Egypt, and Israel. This 
equipment has enabled farmers all across the globe who just a few years 
ago were harvesting their potatoes by hand to now efficiently complete 
their harvest using the equipment designed for their unique farms and 
crop yields, helping them to become sustainable farmers. That simple 
commitment to providing solutions for growers to be more effective with 
their harvesting and storage of crops is what allows Double L to be the 
successful business that it is today.
  As a company with a global presence rooted in the growing and 
handling practices of the Gem State potato farmers, Double L is a prime 
example of the American entrepreneurial spirit that works to find 
innovative solutions to empower consumers. By providing quality 
customer service, cultivating strong working relationships, and 
maintaining longevity of over 10 years with many of their employees, 
Double L has shown that not only can they manufacture powerful machines 
and solutions, but that they are in fact one of the many small 
businesses that are driving the American economy forward. I would like 
to extend my sincerest congratulations to Chris and all of the 
employees at Double L for being selected as the December 2017 Small 
Business of the Month. Not only do you make our great State proud, but 
you also allow for millions more to enjoy Idaho potatoes as well. I 
look forward to watching the continued success of this strong Idaho 
business.

                          ____________________



