

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 198 (Tuesday, December 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9664]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself and Mr. 
             Hultgren):
       H.R. 4546. A bill to amend the Securities Act of 1933 to 
     specify when a nationally traded security is exempt from 
     State regulation of security offerings; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas (for himself and Mr. Larson 
             of Connecticut):
       H.R. 4547. A bill to amend titles II, VIII, and XVI of the 
     Social Security Act to improve and strengthen the 
     representative payment program; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself, Mr. Sablan, Mr. 
             Takano, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Norcross, Ms. DeLauro, 
             Ms. Kaptur, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Nadler, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Pocan, 
             Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Mr. Cummings, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. DeFazio, 
             Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Langevin, 
             Mr. Serrano, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Ms. Sanchez, Ms. 
             Adams, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. 
             Ellison, Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. Norton, Mr. Khanna, and 
             Ms. Shea-Porter):
       H.R. 4548. A bill to amend the National Labor Relations Act 
     to strengthen protections for employees to exercise their 
     rights to organize and collectively bargain for improved 
     wages, hours, or other terms and conditions of employment, to 
     sanction violations of such rights and assure meaningful 
     remedies, to establish a process by which employers and 
     employees conclude initial collective bargaining agreements, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself and Mr. Keating):
       H.R. 4549. A bill to require annual reports on religious 
     intolerance in Saudi Arabian educational materials, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas (for himself and Mr. Mooney of 
             West Virginia):
       H.R. 4550. A bill to amend the Fair Debt Collection 
     Practices Act to exclude law firms and licensed attorneys who 
     are engaged in activities related to legal proceedings from 
     the definition of a debt collector, to amend the Consumer 
     Financial Protection Act of 2010 to prevent the Bureau of 
     Consumer Financial Protection from exercising supervisory or 
     enforcement authority with respect to attorneys when 
     undertaking certain actions related to legal proceedings, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. CASTRO of Texas (for himself and Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana):
       H.R. 4551. A bill to amend the Foreign Agents Registration 
     Act of 1938 to prohibit any individual who served as the head 
     of any element of the intelligence community from acting as 
     the agent of a foreign principal, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Intelligence (Permanent Select), for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GALLAGHER (for himself, Mr. Kind, Mr. Duffy, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Sensenbrenner, Mr. Grothman, Ms. Moore, 
             Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of Florida, and Mr. Ross):
       H.R. 4552. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to establish rules for payment for graduate 
     medical education (GME) costs for hospitals that establish a 
     new medical residency training program after hosting resident 
     rotators for short durations; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GARRETT (for himself, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Katko, Mr. 
             Rutherford, Mr. Gallagher, Mr. Fitzpatrick, and Mr. 
             Higgins of Louisiana):
       H.R. 4553. A bill to require a review of the authorization, 
     funding, management, and operation of the National Targeting 
     Center and the Terrorist Screening Center, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition 
     to the Committees on Ways and Means, and Homeland Security, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROSKAM (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
             Shimkus, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Meehan, Mr. Brendan F. 
             Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Connolly, Mr. Buchanan, and Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois):
       H.R. 4554. A bill to establish a smart card pilot program 
     to combat fraud, waste, and abuse and to protect beneficiary 
     identity under the Medicare program; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RUTHERFORD (for himself, Mr. Higgins of 
             Louisiana, Mr. Gallagher, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. 
             Garrett, Mr. McCaul, and Mr. Katko):
       H.R. 4555. A bill to authorize the participation in 
     overseas interagency counterterrorism task forces of 
     personnel of the Department of Homeland Security, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Ms. SHEA-PORTER:
       H.R. 4556. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish dental 
     care in the same manner as any other medical service, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. WAGNER:
       H.R. 4557. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Housing and 
     Urban Development to provide disaster assistance to States 
     and units of general government under a community development 
     block grant disaster recovery program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.

                          ____________________



