

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 209 (Thursday, December 21, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S8188-S8189]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO LUTHER STRANGE

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, on a completely different matter, I 
would like to say a few words in tribute to a fine colleague whose all-
too-brief time in the Senate will soon draw to a close.
  Senator Luther Strange of Alabama is the newest Member of this body, 
having been sworn in just this past February, but he did not waste any 
time in making an impact. In this historic year for the Senate, Luther 
quickly emerged as a strong voice on policy and an important vote on 
landmark legislation.
  On a personal level, it didn't take anyone long to realize that this 
newcomer would rank among the most diligent, dedicated, and public-
spirited Members of this institution. At first, we even wondered 
whether Luther might be a little too diligent.
  Upon his arriving in Washington, the Senator dived into the task of 
meeting his colleagues with the friendly earnestness that is his 
calling card. The first time Luther passed Senator Roberts in a Capitol 
hallway, he stopped to introduce himself and share his excitement to be 
joining the Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry Committee. There was 
nothing unusual there, but I have it on good authority that the very 
next day, when Luther found himself sharing an elevator with Senator 
Roberts, the junior Senator from Alabama introduced himself all over 
again. Not long after, a chance meeting on the train occasioned yet a 
third introduction. Pat Roberts had to put a stop to it.
  ``Yes, Luther,'' he broke in. ``I think we've met before--and we're 
sure glad to have you here, too.'' We certainly were glad as well.
  Luther came to the Senate with a national reputation for integrity 
and excellence in public service. That started young. The proud son of 
a Navy veteran turned college professor, this Birmingham paperboy made 
Eagle Scout at age 13--an accomplishment that still shows up on his 
lapel from time to time.
  He received his bachelor's from Tulane, where--and I know this may 
come as a shock--the man the Senate historian has apparently verified 
as the tallest Senator in history played scholarship basketball.

[[Page S8189]]

  After graduation, to save for law school, he spent a year on a boat 
that supplied oil rigs in the North Sea. He pitched in on everything--
did whatever it took to help the team--and helped the crew navigate the 
ship through choppy waters.
  These qualities will sound familiar to everyone who has worked with 
Luther since.
  He built a sterling reputation as an up-and-coming lawyer in private 
practice. He then set it aside to serve the people of the State he 
loves as Alabama's attorney general.
  In the fine Alabama tradition of public servants, like his friends 
and mentors Jeff Sessions and Richard Shelby, he combined a steel spine 
with a servant's heart. Whenever the people of the State needed 
defending--their businesses, their religious liberties, their Second 
Amendment rights--their attorney general was there for them.
  Then as now, he fought fiercely when times required it and his 
principles demanded it, but no matter how important the issue at hand, 
from the Supreme Court to the Senate floor, Luther never loses his good 
humor or his conviction that we serve in order to help our 
constituents, not to aggrandize ourselves.
  Luther Strange reminds us that character counts. He reminds us that 
deeply held conservative values do not in any way stand opposed to 
collegiality and common decency. To the contrary, our values require 
these things.
  He reminds us that the American people need not choose between 
leaders who share their principles and leaders who dignify public 
service. They should hold their elected officials to a high standard 
and demand that we do too.
  If you cannot tell, Luther's colleagues look up to him in more ways 
than one. We are sorry to see him go.
  In the farewell speech that Senator Strange delivered on this floor, 
he challenged his colleagues to revive greater comity in this body. He 
implored us not to give up on bipartisanship or on building friendships 
that run deeper than policy disagreements. He reminded us that the 
Senate's Marble Room, across the hallway from this Chamber, used to be 
a popular gathering place. Senators from both parties would relax and 
get to know one another above and beyond the specific disputes of the 
day. Today, Luther pointed out, this room often sits empty.
  His advice is well taken, and I have an idea how we could begin to 
put it into practice. All of us on both sides of the aisle could try to 
approach our work with more of the optimism, can-do spirit, and 
reverence for this great institution that Luther Strange has brought to 
work every single day.
  Of course, the Senate's loss will be a happy gain for Luther's 
beloved family.
  Despite the fact that his bright idea for a first date with Melissa 
was a trip to the Talladega Superspeedway to take in the Talladega 500, 
he convinced her to marry him anyway. Their loving partnership has now 
spanned 36 years and counting. They have raised two sons. I hear that 
Luke is just an inch shy of his dad's height and that Keehn is an inch 
taller. In recent years, Luther and Melissa have become the proud 
grandparents of two young boys.
  I have it on good authority that a certain black Lab named Sophie 
might be the most excited of all the Stranges to welcome the Senator 
back home to Birmingham.
  Wherever Luther's distinguished career takes him next, I know he is 
glad it will involve more time with the people he loves most.
  He has served with distinction in the Senate during a year of 
historic achievements. On behalf of Alabamians, he has made vital 
contributions on the Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry; Armed 
Services; Budget; and Energy and Natural Resources Committees. He has 
cast votes to help middle-class families and set America on a brighter 
trajectory for years to come.
  We thank him and wish him every success in his future endeavors, and 
we salute him for the dedicated service he has rendered to his country 
and to the people of the great State of Alabama.

                          ____________________



