

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 175 (Monday, October 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 175 (Monday, October 30, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6873-S6874]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  RECOGNIZING TELSTAR ASSOCIATES, INC.

 Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, every month I celebrate the power of 
the American entrepreneurial spirit by

[[Page S6874]]

highlighting the successes of a small business in my home State of 
Idaho. This month's recipient of the Small Business of the Month is a 
veteran-owned business, which is fitting since this week is National 
Veterans Small Business Week. It is always great to see veterans 
succeed after they close out their years of service and continue their 
path as a civilian. The founders of October's Small Business of the 
Month demonstrate that, with determination and hard work, there is no 
limit to what can be accomplished. I am honored to recognize an 
enterprise that makes it their business to help other businesses 
experience growth and prosperity of their own. As chairman of the 
Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, I am pleased 
to recognize TelStar Associates, Inc., as the Senate Small Business of 
the Month for October 2017.
  TelStar was founded in 1979 by Jose Telleria and Douglas Stark, who 
decided to join together and use their individual strengths and 
experience in the field of information technology to create their own 
business. The company name, TelStar, is a combination of the names of 
its founders and represents the partnership between Telleria--Tel--and 
Stark, Star. For their first contract, TelStar developed a software 
program that tracked the storage and shipping of onions for Murakami 
Produce. Within a short period of time, TelStar was providing their 
services to a diverse range of clients in both the private and public 
sectors, including the Idaho Governor's Office, Idaho Department of 
Health and Welfare, the Idaho National Laboratory, and Boise State 
University. TelStar also developed a chemical management and waste 
disposal management application that is currently used by the U.S. 
Navy. In addition to being an invaluable asset to their community, 
TelStar exemplifies the entrepreneurial spirit by continually adapting 
to the needs of their clients.
  As leaders in the IT field, Jose and Douglas created a business known 
for flexibility and for consistently providing meaningful services. 
Responding to the changing needs of businesses, TelStar expanded their 
services from custom contract programming to network support, field 
services, cyber security, and IT staffing services. TelStar provides 
their clients with access to affordable services that allow them to 
improve their IT capabilities. In an increasingly technological world, 
small businesses have the opportunity to benefit from businesses like 
Jose and Douglas's. I know the technological challenges businesses can 
face, which is why I am proud to recognize TelStar, a successful 
business that is committed to helping other businesses achieve success 
of their own, by empowering them to be the best at what they do. Since 
their first contract for Murakami Produce, TelStar has exemplified the 
innovative nature of many American small businesses.
  A belief central to TelStar's culture is that ``People make the 
difference.'' There is nothing more commendable than helping someone 
else achieve their goals, and I would like to congratulate Jose 
Telleria, Douglas Stark, and all of the employees of TelStar for the 
impact they have had on their community. TelStar's entrepreneurial 
spirit is an example for every American to follow, and I look forward 
to watching your continued growth and success.

                          ____________________



