

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6997]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION

  Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control 
Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain 
proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification, 
the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be 
reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the 
notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
  In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant 
information is available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous consent to 
have printed in the Record the notifications which have been received. 
If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is 
available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations 
Committee, room SD-423.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 17-22, 
     concerning the Department of the Air Force's proposed 
     Letter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Government of Qatar 
     for defense articles and services estimated to cost $1.1 
     billion. After this letter is delivered to your office, we 
     plan to issue a news release to notify the public of this 
     proposed sale.
           Sincerely,
             Charles W. Hooper, Lieutenant General, USA, Director.
       Enclosures.


                         Transmittal No. 17-22

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) Of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Qatar
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment* $ 0 billion.
       Other $ 1.1 billion.
       TOTAL $ 1.1 billion.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase:
       Major Defense Equipment (MDE): None
       Non-MDE: Design and construction services, new parking/
     loading ramps, hot cargo pads, taxiways, hangars, back shops, 
     alert facilities, weapons storage areas, hardened shelters, 
     squadron operations facilities, maintenance facilities, 
     training facilities, information technology support and cyber 
     facilities, force protection support facilities, squadron 
     operations facilities, other F-15QA related support 
     structures, construction/facilities/design services, 
     cybersecurity services, mission critical computer resources, 
     support services, force protection services, and other 
     related elements of logistics and program support.
       (iv) Military Department: Air Force (X7-D-QAL).
       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any:
       Air Force: QA-D-SAC, QA-D-TAH, QA-D-YAB.
       Navy: QA-P-AAG, QA-P-AAE, QA-P-AAH, QA-P-LAC, QA-P-LAE.
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered. or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: None.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: November 1, 2017.
       *As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          POLICY JUSTIFICATION

    Qatar--F-15QA Construction, Cybersecurity, and Force Protection 
                             Infrastructure

       The Government of Qatar has requested support of its F-15QA 
     multi-role fighter aircraft program to include design and 
     construction services, new parking/loading ramps, hot cargo 
     pads, taxiways, hangars, back shops, alert facilities, 
     weapons storage areas, hardened shelters, squadron operations 
     facilities, maintenance facilities, training facilities, 
     information technology support and cyber facilities, force 
     protection support facilities, squadron operations 
     facilities, other F-15QA related support structures, 
     construction/facilities/design services, cybersecurity 
     services, mission critical computer resources, support 
     services, force protection services, and other related 
     elements of logistics and program support. The estimated cost 
     is $1.1 billion.
       This proposed sale supports the foreign policy and national 
     security objectives of the United States. Qatar is an 
     important force for political stability and economic progress 
     in the Persian Gulf region. Our mutual defense interests 
     anchor our relationship and the Qatar Emiri Air Force (QEAF) 
     plays a predominant role in Qatar's defense.
       The proposed sale improves Qatar's capability to operate 
     and sustain its F-15QA aircraft. A robust construction, 
     cybersecurity, and force protection infrastructure is vital 
     to ensuring the QEAF partners can utilize the F-15QA aircraft 
     to its full potential. Qatar will have no difficulty 
     absorbing this support into its armed forces.
       The proposed sale of this construction, cybersecurity, and 
     force protection infrastructure will not alter the basic 
     military balance in the region.
       The prime contractor for construction, cybersecurity, and 
     force protection infrastructure will be determined through 
     competition. The purchaser typically requests offsets. Any 
     offset agreement will be defined in negotiations between the 
     purchaser and the contractor.
       Implementation of the construction, cybersecurity, and 
     force protection aspects of this notification include the 
     establishment of a construction office in Doha with as many 
     as ten (10) U.S. Government civilians which will adjust in 
     size as case workload varies. Anticipated contractor 
     footprint for this effort is approximately fifteen (15) to 
     fifty (50) personnel, which may vary based on phases of 
     construction and establishment of required services.
       There will be no adverse impact to U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale.

                          ____________________



