

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 150 (Monday, September 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 150 (Monday, September 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S5776]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO NANCY KERVIN

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, on one final matter, I would like to 
take a brief moment to recognize a talented member of the Senate 
community who will be retiring this month after 20 years of service to 
this body and to the Nation.
  Nancy Kervin is a reference librarian in the Senate Library, and for 
years, whenever my office needed assistance with a seemingly impossible 
research question, she was always ready to lend a helping hand. I could 
not let her depart without giving her the recognition that she so 
richly deserves.
  Nancy came to the Senate following a wide-ranging career in 
publishing and in research, and through her work here, Nancy has made a 
lasting mark.
  To members of my staff and to numerous others around the Senate, 
Nancy has been the first person to call when facing a difficult 
research question. Nancy's signature combination of intellectual rigor 
and unyielding perseverance has enabled her to skillfully complete 
countless research projects on numerous subjects throughout her time in 
the Senate, and, of course, she is widely known for her kindness and 
her good humor.
  My office has worked closely with Nancy on a number of different 
projects over the years, but there is one project--a project of 
particular personal importance to me--that I would like to mention 
today.
  A number of years ago, I began a series of lectures at Kentucky 
colleges and universities focusing on the lives and legacies of 
prominent U.S. Senators from the Commonwealth. Since the project's 
inception, my staff has regularly looked to Nancy for help. She has 
been an indispensable resource for each historical speech in Kentucky 
that I have delivered. Her work in gathering sources and putting the 
information in its proper context has helped me to pay tribute to many 
distinguished Kentuckians. Therefore, it is fitting that she holds the 
highest honor that my State can bestow upon a civilian, that of a 
Kentucky colonel.
  After her years of dedicated service, Nancy deserves a relaxing 
retirement. Along with her husband, Stephen--another stalwart member of 
the Senate family who will be retiring from the Senate Historical 
Office--Nancy plans to spend time traveling and working in her garden. 
She will be sorely missed here.
  On behalf of the entire Senate family, I congratulate Nancy and 
Stephen on their successful careers in promoting the history and the 
legacy of this Chamber and those who have served in it. I wish them 
both happy retirements.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. LEE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so 
ordered.

                          ____________________



