

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 180 (Monday, November 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 180 (Monday, November 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7011]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO DR. JOHN LOGAN

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, today I wish to congratulate a dear 
friend whom I have known for more than 30 years, Dr. John Logan III, of 
Henderson, KY. John was recently honored by his community for a 
lifetime of servant leadership. The city dedicated a plaque on the 
Henderson Riverwalk, which is one of the many landmarks that John had 
an indispensable hand in building and one I was proud to work with him 
to help secure. In a surprise ceremony--John thought he was simply 
going to lunch with a friend--they honored him for decades of 
philanthropy and service to his community.
  The plaque includes a quote from author Margaret Mead, which reads, 
``Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can 
change the world; indeed, it's the only thing that ever has.'' These 
words perfectly encapsulate the impact of my friend John.
  John serves as the chief medical officer of the Methodist Hospital in 
Henderson, where he started working in 1962 specializing in family 
medicine. A number of years ago, John embarked on a mission to 
highlight the extraordinary history of the hospital. Because of his 
tireless work, the successes of this Henderson institution will 
continue to be remembered for years to come. In addition to his work 
caring for patients and leading the administration of the hospital, 
John gives of himself to other aspects of the community.
  In 1971, John joined the Family YMCA's capital campaign, working to 
help the group move from its old home downtown to a much larger 
facility on 5 acres of land. He has continued to work with the YMCA, 
making sure that young people in Henderson have a well-equipped 
facility to enjoy and grow. John also helped establish other community 
initiatives, including Henderson's Depot Welcome Center and the 
Methodist Hospital's Neonatal Intensive Care Unit.
  In 2012, the Henderson Community College board of directors presented 
John with an award recognizing his substantial service to the school. 
Through the years, John has taken a keen interest in the students. He 
worked with State legislators and community leaders to raise $1 million 
to support scholarships to the college and to build a fine arts center. 
His impact will be felt by students for years to come.
  John has spent his life giving to others--his community, the 
Methodist Hospital, and his friends. So many of the projects in 
Henderson would not have been possible without John's dedicated 
leadership, and I am immensely proud to call him my friend. His decades 
of service have truly made Henderson and Kentucky a better place.
  I ask all of my colleagues to join me in paying tribute to the 
selfless work of Dr. John Logan, a remarkable Kentuckian and a 
wonderful friend.
  Mr. President, The Gleaner in Henderson recently published an article 
on John's career of service. I ask unanimous consent that a copy of the 
article be printed in the Record.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                   [From the Gleaner, Oct. 26, 2017]

     Dr. John Logan Honored for Lifetime of Community Volunteerism

                           (By Douglas White)

       It's hard to name a community institution in Henderson that 
     Dr. John Logan hasn't helped or been part of creating.
       So when it came time to honor his decades of organizing, 
     cheerleading and fundraising for the Henderson community as a 
     whole, city officials picked perhaps the most scenic spot 
     he's had a hand in bringing to reality.
       ``Every day he wakes up and works to make this community 
     better,'' said Dr. Lee Newberry, one of Logan's colleagues at 
     Methodist Hospital, as a plaque was dedicated Tuesday 
     afternoon at the Seventh Street overlook on the Henderson 
     Riverwalk.
       ``He's a true example of a servant leader.''
       Newberry and other speakers at the event offered a long 
     list of community projects, programs and buildings that Logan 
     has helped make happen.
       A few examples include the modern YMCA facilities, the fine 
     arts center on the campus of Henderson Community College, the 
     downtown Depot building, St. Anthony's Hospice, Colonels to 
     College, the Sandefur Center, and currently in the works, the 
     new 1-69 bridge over the Ohio River.
       Attorney David Thomason noted, ``Many of those things 
     wouldn't have happened if it hadn't been for John.''
       Thomason recalled how Logan pushed for, and got, money 
     inserted into the state budget for Henderson's fine arts 
     center. It came literally at the midnight hour, but with a 
     catch: Henderson would have to find a way to contribute 
     $200,000 to make the bonding a reality.
       When asked, in the middle of the night, if Logan could make 
     it happen, he replied quickly: ``You're damned right!''
       ``He never met a challenge he didn't embrace,'' said 
     Thomason. ``Once he's on board, the ship doesn't sink. In my 
     opinion, he has done more than any other volunteer in the 
     past 50 years.''

                          ____________________



