

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H10245-H10246]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. TAKANO:
       H.R. 4680. A bill to ensure due process protections of 
     individuals in the United States against unlawful detention 
     based solely on a protected characteristic; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr. Kinzinger, Mr. Royce of 
             California, and Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 4681. A bill to limit assistance for areas of Syria 
     controlled by the Government of Syria or associated forces, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Financial Services, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself, Mr. Stivers, Mr. 
             Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Hudson, Mr. Lance, Mr. Collins 
             of New York, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, Mr. Flores, 
             Mr. Curtis, Mr.

[[Page H10246]]

             Norman, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, 
             Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Guthrie, and 
             Mr. Knight):
       H.R. 4682. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 
     to ensure internet openness, to prohibit blocking of lawful 
     content, applications, services, and non-harmful devices, to 
     prohibit impairment or degradation of lawful internet 
     traffic, to limit the authority of the Federal Communications 
     Commission and to preempt State law with respect to internet 
     openness obligations, to provide that broadband internet 
     access service shall be considered to be an information 
     service, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. REICHERT (for himself, Ms. DelBene, Mrs. 
             McMorris Rodgers, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, and Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman):
       H.R. 4683. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to revise the NTAP period under the Medicare 
     inpatient prospective payment system and the pass-through 
     period under the Medicare outpatient prospective payment 
     system; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for herself, Mrs. Murphy 
             of Florida, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. 
             Ruiz, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Ms. 
             Frankel of Florida, Mrs. Mimi Walters of California, 
             Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, and Mr. Bilirakis):
       H.R. 4684. A bill to direct the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services, acting through the Director of the Center for 
     Substance Abuse Treatment of the Substance Abuse and Mental 
     Health Services Administration, to publish and disseminate 
     best practices for operating a recovery housing, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself and Mr. Langevin):
       H.R. 4685. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 515 Hope Street in Bristol, 
     Rhode Island, as the ``First Sergeant P. Andrew McKenna Jr. 
     Post Office''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Pocan, 
             and Mr. Cicilline):
       H.R. 4686. A bill to establish the National Commission on 
     Economic Concentration to study the effects of economic 
     concentration on competition, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. LAWSON of Florida:
       H.R. 4687. A bill to designate the health care center of 
     the Department of Veterans Affairs in Tallahassee, Florida, 
     as the Sergeant Ernest I. ``Boots'' Thomas VA Clinic, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico:
       H.R. 4688. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     make land grants-mercedes eligible for assistance, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. SMITH of Nebraska:
       H.R. 4689. A bill to authorize early repayment of 
     obligations to the Bureau of Reclamation within the Northport 
     Irrigation District in the State of Nebraska; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.

                          ____________________



