

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6367]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS

                                 ______
                                 

SENATE RESOLUTION 285--HONORING THE LIFE AND ACHIEVEMENTS OF DR. SAMUEL 
                              DUBOIS COOK

  Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr. Burr, Mr. Cassidy, and Mr. Tillis) 
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee 
on the Judiciary:

                              S. Res. 285

       Whereas Dr. Samuel DuBois Cook was born on November 21, 
     1928, in Griffin, Georgia;
       Whereas Dr. Samuel DuBois Cook earned a Bachelor of Arts 
     degree in history from Morehouse College in Atlanta, Georgia;
       Whereas, as a student, Dr. Samuel DuBois Cook was a friend 
     and classmate of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and a leader at 
     Morehouse College, where he served as student body president 
     and founded the campus chapter of the National Association 
     for the advancement of Colored People;
       Whereas Dr. Samuel DuBois Cook earned a Master of Arts in 
     Political Science and a Doctor of Philosophy from Ohio State 
     University;
       Whereas Dr. Samuel DuBois Cook is a veteran who served in 
     the United States Army during the Korean War;
       Whereas Dr. Samuel DuBois Cook taught at Southern 
     University in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, Atlanta University, the 
     University of Illinois, and the University of California, Los 
     Angeles, before becoming a faculty member at Duke University 
     in Durham, North Carolina;
       Whereas Dr. Samuel DuBois Cook spent his life working for 
     social justice and equality;
       Whereas Dr. Samuel DuBois Cook distinguished himself as an 
     educator, scholar, thinker, activist, and public servant;
       Whereas Dr. Samuel DuBois Cook broke racial barriers as the 
     first African American to hold either a regular or tenured 
     faculty appointment at a predominantly white southern college 
     or university, when he received an appointment at Duke 
     University;
       Whereas Dr. Samuel DuBois Cook also broke racial barriers 
     in his field by serving as the first African American 
     president of the Southern Political Science Association;
       Whereas Dr. Samuel DuBois Cook endeavored to advance 
     interracial harmony;
       Whereas Dr. Samuel DuBois Cook left an indelible imprint on 
     Dillard University, a historically black university in New 
     Orleans, Louisiana, as its president for more than 2 decades;
       Whereas Dr. Samuel DuBois Cook was appointed to the 
     National Council on the Humanities by President Jimmy Carter 
     and appointed to the United States Holocaust Memorial Council 
     by President Bill Clinton;
       Whereas Dr. Samuel DuBois Cook served as vice president of 
     the American Political Science Association, president of the 
     Association for the Study of African American Life and 
     History, and chair of the Presidents of the United Negro 
     College Fund;
       Whereas Duke University established the Samuel DuBois Cook 
     Society, the Samuel DuBois Cook Center on Social Equity, the 
     Samuel DuBois Cook professorship, and the Samuel DuBois Cook 
     Postdoctoral Fellowship;
       Whereas Ohio State University established the Samuel DuBois 
     Cook Summer Academy and the Samuel DuBois Cook graduate 
     fellowship, to honor the work and achievements of Dr. Samuel 
     DuBois Cook;
       Whereas Dr. Samuel DuBois Cook died on May 29, 2017; and
       Whereas Dr. Samuel DuBois Cook is considered to be a 
     trailblazer who lived a life of integrity: Now, therefore, be 
     it
       Resolved, That the Senate honors the life and achievements 
     of Dr. Samuel DuBois Cook.

                          ____________________



