

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9296-H9297]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     ZACHARY ADDINGTON POST OFFICE

  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill 
(H.R. 3821) to designate the facility of the United States Postal 
Service located at 430 Main Street in Clermont, Georgia, as the 
``Zachary Addington Post Office'', as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 3821

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

[[Page H9297]]

  


     SECTION 1. ZACK T. ADDINGTON POST OFFICE.

       (a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal 
     Service located at 430 Main Street in Clermont, Georgia, 
     shall be known and designated as the ``Zack T. Addington Post 
     Office''.
       (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
     document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
     facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be 
     a reference to the ``Zack T. Addington Post Office''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Kentucky (Mr. Comer) and the gentlewoman from New Jersey (Mrs. Watson 
Coleman) each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Kentucky.


                             General Leave

  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and 
include extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Kentucky?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3821, introduced by the 
gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Collins).
  The bill names the United States Post Office at 430 Main Street in 
Clermont, Georgia, after U.S. Marine Lance Corporal Zach T. Addington, 
who was killed in action in the Vietnam war.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman 
from Georgia (Mr. Collins) to further describe the bill and Lance 
Corporal Addington's service to our country.
  Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from 
Kentucky and the gentlewoman from New Jersey for being a part of this 
today.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3821, legislation to 
name the Clermont Post Office after Lance Corporal Zach T. Addington.
  I introduced this legislation to honor Zach, a fellow northeast 
Georgian, for giving his life in service to our Nation during the 
Vietnam war.
  Zach Addington was born to Addison S. and Lillie Addington on 
November 1, 1948, in Gainesville, Georgia. He and his family lived in 
Clermont, Georgia, where he attended Clermont Elementary School and my 
alma mater, which we share, North Hall High School. He graduated in 
1967.
  Zach enlisted in the United States Marine Corps as a private, in July 
of 1967, and became a rifleman in the 3rd Marine Division of the Fleet 
Marine Force. He was promoted to private first class on December 1, 
1967, and he was deployed to Vietnam on December 19 of the same year.
  On April 1, 1968, Zach was promoted to lance corporal. His company 
was participating in Operation Scotland II when they engaged hostile 
forces in the vicinity of Hill 689, four kilometers west-southwest of 
Khe Sanh Airfield. On May 16, 1968, Zach Addington was killed in 
action.
  His captain, William McArdle, stated that he was ``one of the finest 
marines I have ever known. His exemplary conduct, leadership, and 
singular determination to do every job well were qualities that all of 
us respected.''
  On June 6, 1968, Mr. Addington was posthumously awarded the Purple 
Heart, the National Defense Service Medal, the Vietnam Service Medal, 
and the Republic of Vietnam Campaign Ribbon in recognition of his 
service in Vietnam.
  His family hopes to display these awards in the Clermont Post Office 
after the naming.
  He is survived by his brother, Addison S. Addington; and sisters, 
Billie Quillin and Sandra Montgomery.
  The memory of Zach's courage and his service lives on in our corner 
of Georgia, and the naming of the Clermont Post Office in his honor 
will be a reminder to all of us of his sacrifice and the sacrifices of 
the armed services to us all.
  There is a time when we come to these post offices and we read 
accomplishments, Mr. Speaker. We read accomplishments of many folks, 
but each one has a story to tell. I think really, when you start to 
listen to the many whom we have talked about today, there is a certain 
theme of service that runs through each. There is a certain theme of 
something bigger than themselves, and especially those who gave their 
life.
  Zach Addington was one who went willingly. He knew that he may not 
return, in fact, even told people he may not, and he did not, but that 
service and that sacrifice gives us the ability to stand here today and 
to do what we do. By standing here today, I intend to honor him for the 
naming of this post office and would encourage my colleagues to vote in 
favor.
  Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to join my colleagues in consideration of 
H.R. 3821, a bill to designate the facility of the United States Post 
Office located at 430 Main Street in Clermont, Georgia, as the Zachary 
Addington Post Office.
  Born in Gainesville, Georgia, in 1948, Zachary Addington graduated 
from North Hall High School in 1967. He chose to enlist in the Marine 
Corps that year, becoming a private in the 3rd Marine Division of the 
Fleet Marine Force. He deployed to Vietnam that December as a private 
first class.
  On May 16, 1968, then-Lance Corporal Addington was participating in 
Operation Scotland II with his company when he was tragically killed in 
action.
  He was posthumously awarded the Purple Heart, National Defense 
Service Medal, and Vietnam Service Medal for his honorable service. His 
captain deemed Lance Corporal Addington one of the finest marines he 
had ever known.
  Mr. Speaker, we should pass this bill to commemorate the ultimate 
sacrifice Lance Corporal Zachary Addington made for our Nation, and I 
urge the passage of H.R. 3821.
  Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I yield back the balance 
of my time.
  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the bill, and I yield back 
the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. Comer) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 3821, as amended.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



