

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 158 (Tuesday, October 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 158 (Tuesday, October 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7749-H7750]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself, Mr. Welch, Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, 
             Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. 
             Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Mr. Norcross, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, 
             Mr. Jenkins of West Virginia, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, 
             and Mrs. Bustos):
       H.R. 3913. A bill to amend the Surface Mining Control and 
     Reclamation Act of 1977 to transfer certain funds to the 1974 
     United Mine Workers of America Pension Plan, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ESTES of Kansas (for himself, Mr. Marshall, Ms. 
             Jenkins of Kansas, and Mr. Yoder):
       H.R. 3914. A bill to remove the limitation imposed as a 
     result of receiving funding under the Land and Water 
     Conservation Fund on the conversion of Lake Afton Park in 
     Sedgwick County, Kansas, to a use other than public outdoor 
     recreation; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. LUCAS (for himself and Mr. Heck):
       H.R. 3915. A bill to clarify membership requirements for 
     the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
     Corporation; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. CALVERT (for himself, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Simpson, 
             Mr. Costa, and Mr. Valadao):
       H.R. 3916. A bill to amend the Endangered Species Act of 
     1973 to vest in the Secretary of the Interior functions under 
     that Act with respect to species of fish that spawn in fresh 
     or estuarine waters and migrate to ocean waters, and species 
     of fish that spawn in ocean waters and migrate to fresh 
     waters; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. MULLIN (for himself and Mr. Ruiz):
       H.R. 3917. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     extend funding for the special diabetes program for Indians; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. COURTNEY (for himself, Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. 
             Donovan, Mr. Evans, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Himes, Mr. 
             Lance, Mr. McKinley, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. 
             Payne, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Sires, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, Ms. 
             Esty of Connecticut, and Mr. Soto):
       H.R. 3918. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and 
     Safe Streets Act of 1968 to extend public safety officers' 
     death benefits to fire police officers; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. BLACK (for herself and Mr. Thompson of 
             California):
       H.R. 3919. A bill to streamline the employer reporting 
     process and strengthen the eligibility verification process 
     for the premium assistance tax credit and cost-sharing 
     subsidy; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. WALORSKI:
       H.R. 3920. A bill to establish a Medicare demonstration 
     program on the use of third-party interest-free payment 
     arrangements to reduce Medicare hospital part A bad debt 
     claims; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BURGESS:
       H.R. 3921. A bill to extend funding for the Children's 
     Health Insurance Program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. WALDEN:
       H.R. 3922. A bill to extend funding for certain public 
     health programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SMITH of Washington (for himself, Ms. Jayapal, 
             Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Danny K. 
             Davis of Illinois, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. 
             Foster, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. Hanabusa, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, 
             Mr. Kennedy, Mrs. Lawrence, Ms. Lee, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. 
             McGovern, Ms. Moore, Mr. Nadler, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Payne, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Roybal-Allard, 
             Mr. Rush, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Veasey, Ms. Maxine 
             Waters of California, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Polis, 
             Ms. DelBene, Mr. Conyers, Ms. Barragan, Miss Rice of 
             New York, Mr. Gomez, Ms. Pingree, Mrs. Napolitano, 
             Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Doggett, Mr. 
             Serrano, and Mr. Grijalva):
       H.R. 3923. A bill to provide standards for facilities at 
     which aliens in the custody of the Department of Homeland 
     Security are detained, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana (for herself, Ms. DeGette, 
             and Mr. Reed):
       H.R. 3924. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     extend funding for the special diabetes program for type I 
     diabetes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, and Mr. Veasey):
       H.R. 3925. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide a tax credit to Patriot employers, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself and Ms. Stefanik):
       H.R. 3926. A bill to provide for an extension for community 
     health centers, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS:
       H.R. 3927. A bill to amend title XXI to allow for the 
     blending of risk pools of children's health insurance buy-in 
     programs with the risk pools of State child health plans 
     under such title, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BUCSHON (for himself and Mr. David Scott of 
             Georgia):
       H.R. 3928. A bill to ensure that patients receive accurate 
     health care information by prohibiting misleading and 
     deceptive advertising or representation in the provision of 
     health care services, to require the identification of the 
     license of health care professionals, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. COURTNEY (for himself and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 3929. A bill to direct the Secretary of Energy to 
     carry out a program to provide payments to communities in 
     which a nuclear power plant that has ceased generating 
     electricity and that stores spent nuclear fuel onsite is 
     located, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE (for herself, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. 
             Vela, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Veasey, Ms. 
             Shea-Porter, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. Gene Green of 
             Texas, Mr. Castro of Texas, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Al 
             Green of Texas, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, 
             Ms. Sewell of Alabama, and Mr. Cuellar):
       H.R. 3930. A bill to establish the Office of Hurricane 
     Harvey Small Business Recovery Grants in the Small Business 
     Administration to compensate certain small business concerns 
     for substantial economic injury suffered as a result of 
     Hurricane Harvey in August 2017; to the Committee on Small 
     Business, and in addition to the Committee on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. LANCE (for himself and Ms. Matsui):
       H.R. 3931. A bill to increase the number of States that may 
     conduct Medicaid demonstration programs to improve access to 
     community mental health services; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. LANCE (for himself and Miss Gonzalez-Colon of 
             Puerto Rico):
       H.R. 3932. A bill to amend title XI of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for increased Puerto Rico Medicaid payments, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. RENACCI (for himself and Mr. Kilmer):
       H.R. 3933. A bill to establish and reinstate certain 
     reporting requirements regarding efforts to recruit, hire, 
     and retain health care professionals for the Veterans Health 
     Administration; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. ROHRABACHER (for himself, Mr. Duncan of South 
             Carolina, Mr. Jones, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. Massie, Mr. 
             Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Conaway, and Mr. Sessions):
       H.R. 3934. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to exclude from creditable

[[Page H7750]]

     wages and self-employment income wages earned for services by 
     aliens illegally performed in the United States and self-
     employment income derived from a trade or business illegally 
     conducted in the United States; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. SHIMKUS (for himself and Mr. Long):
       H.R. 3935. A bill to provide for an extension of funding 
     for the National Health Service Corps; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California (for herself and Mr. 
             Capuano):
       H.R. 3936. A bill to forgive the indebtedness of the 
     National Flood Insurance Program, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Budget, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H. Res. 554. A resolution recognizing the life and legacy 
     of Richard (Dick) Gregory and honoring his contributions to 
     the civil rights movement and to American comedy; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.

                          ____________________



