

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 206 (Monday, December 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 206 (Monday, December 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8052]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                         FUNDING THE GOVERNMENT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, on another matter, before the end of 
this week, Congress must agree on a continuing resolution to sustain 
the critical operations of the Federal Government. In this process, it 
is vital that we ensure that our men and women in uniform have the 
resources they need to protect Americans and face the challenges of a 
dangerous world.
  During the Obama administration, the readiness of our all-volunteer 
Armed Forces was hurt by irresponsible cuts to the Department of 
Defense, which have damaged combat readiness. The military suffered a 
disproportionate burden under the Budget Control Act. The arbitrary 
demand that increases in defense spending must be equally matched by 
increases in nondefense spending should not stand in the way of 
delivering the resources needed to restore near-term and long-term 
readiness. Earlier this year, we rightly set aside that misguided 
standard and took steps to fully meet the needs of our warfighters. 
This week, we need to do so one more time.
  If Congress fails to reach agreement on government funding, our 
military will suffer intolerable budget cuts that would jeopardize the 
tools and the training our servicemembers need to fulfill their 
missions. Our responsibilities run deeper than keeping the government 
open and ensuring our warfighters have the resources they need.
  Before the year ends, we must also deliver results in several 
additional areas of vital importance to the American people. We must 
renew funding for the Children's Health Insurance Program so the 
parents of 9 million children who are covered by CHIP can know that 
their children's healthcare is secure. We must reauthorize a critical 
foreign intelligence program that the men and women of American law 
enforcement need to keep our Nation safe from those who wish to harm 
us. We must renew the popular Veterans Choice Program, which aims to 
cut wait times for VA healthcare and to give our veterans flexibility 
to access care outside of the system. We must approve supplemental 
disaster funding for States and Territories that are still struggling 
to rebuild after a year of devastating disasters. We must pass a 
routine waiver to avoid unacceptable cuts of Medicare funding and other 
vital programs.
  Since the enactment of the pay-go law in 2010, Congress has never 
allowed a sequester to take effect, especially for tax bills, and we 
must act again this week to ensure that vulnerable Americans are not 
harmed.
  Of particular importance, faced with the continued failure of 
ObamaCare to keep health insurance affordable for working Americans, we 
must take this opportunity to pass bipartisan solutions that will help 
stabilize collapsing health insurance markets and lower premiums for 
individuals and families across the country.
  Across all these critical areas, Congress must do what is right for 
the American people and take action this week. I urge each Member of 
this body to come together and help pass a funding agreement that 
fulfills our responsibilities to the Nation. I look forward to working 
with our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to make sure that 
happens.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



