

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 182 (Wednesday, November 8, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8604]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           CELEBRATING REVEREND BILLY GRAHAM'S 99TH BIRTHDAY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
North Carolina (Mr. McHenry) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. McHENRY. Mr. Speaker, this morning I rise to celebrate a truly 
great American and one of the finest men North Carolina has ever 
produced, the Reverend Billy Graham, who, yesterday, celebrated his 
99th birthday.
  Born November 7, 1918, in Charlotte, North Carolina, Reverend Graham 
has devoted his life to spreading the Gospel of our Lord and Savior, 
Jesus Christ.
  While Reverend Graham was ordained as a minister in 1939, it was not 
until 1949 that he gained the international recognition he is known for 
today. It was that year that he hosted the Los Angeles Crusade. The 
Crusade was originally scheduled to last only 3 weeks, but it ended up 
going on for over 2 months as huge crowds came to hear Reverend Graham 
spread the Gospel.
  In the years since the Los Angeles Crusade, Reverend Graham has 
traveled across the United States and around the world to spread the 
Gospel. According to the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association, in his 
life, Reverend Graham has preached to nearly 215 million people in over 
185 countries and territories around the world.
  Reverend Graham has served as a spiritual adviser to political and 
faith leaders here in the United States and throughout the world. In 
the 1950s and 1960s, he joined Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., for 
integrated crusades. In later years, he delivered invocations at the 
inaugurations of four American Presidents. In 1983, President Ronald 
Reagan awarded Reverend Graham the Presidential Medal of Freedom, which 
is our Nation's highest civilian honor.
  Reverend Graham now resides where he has resided most of his life, in 
Montreat, North Carolina, where I have the honor of serving as his 
Representative here in Congress. While, physically, he has slowed in 
recent years, the power of his work over eight decades is still felt by 
us all. Through the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association, his life's 
mission continues around the world. In fact, his family's mission has 
continued around the world.
  Perhaps the greatest testament to Reverend Graham's dedication to the 
Gospel is how he has chosen to spend his centennial year. Rather than 
celebrate his work, Reverend Graham is devoting this year to 
celebrating the work God has done through him.
  Mr. Speaker, on behalf of everyone in western North Carolina, all 
Americans, and so many people around the world, I would like to wish 
Reverend Graham a happy first day to his 100th year.
  I thank Reverend Graham for serving as a role model and spiritual 
guide for generations of Americans. I thank Reverend Graham for all he 
has done to help those in times of need, and, most importantly, I thank 
him personally for what he has done for me.

                          ____________________



