

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 160 (Thursday, October 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6360-S6361]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 91

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 91, a bill to 
amend the Indian Employment, Training and Related Services 
Demonstration Act of 1992 to facilitate the ability of Indian tribes to 
integrate the employment, training, and related services from diverse 
Federal sources, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 283

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 283, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to provide for the treatment of veterans who 
participated in the cleanup of Enewetak Atoll as radiation exposed 
veterans for purposes of the presumption of service-connection of 
certain disabilities by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 293

  At the request of Mr. Scott, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Portman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 293, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for the deferral of inclusion 
in gross income for capital gains reinvested in opportunity zones.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) and the Senator from New York (Mrs. 
Gillibrand) were added as cosponsors of S. 322, a bill to protect 
victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating 
violence from emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts of 
violence or threats of violence against their pets.


                                 S. 339

  At the request of Mr. Peters, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
339, a bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to repeal the 
requirement for reduction of survivor annuities under the Survivor 
Benefit Plan by veterans' dependency and indemnity compensation, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. 
Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill to amend title XVIII 
of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under Medicare for 
colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether therapeutic 
intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 503

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 503, a bill to require 
the Secretary of Agriculture to make publicly available certain 
regulatory records relating to the administration of the Animal Welfare 
Act and the Horse Protection Act, to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to provide for the use of an alternative depreciation system for 
taxpayers violating rules under the Animal Welfare Act and the Horse 
Protection Act, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the names of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) and the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 654, a bill to revise section 48 of title 18, 
United States Code, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 818

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 818, a bill 
to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow individuals with 
disabilities to save additional amounts in their ABLE accounts above 
the current annual maximum contribution if they work and earn income.
  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 818, supra.


                                 S. 825

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 825, a bill to provide 
for the conveyance of certain property to the Southeast Alaska Regional 
Health Consortium located in Sitka, Alaska, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 896

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 896, a bill to permanently 
reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund.


                                 S. 980

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 980, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for payments for certain 
rural health clinic and Federally qualified health center services 
furnished to hospice patients under the Medicare program.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from New 
York (Mr. Schumer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1050, a bill to award 
a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the Chinese-American 
Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated service 
during World War II.


                                S. 1064

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1064, a bill to amend the Richard 
B. Russell National School Lunch Act to prohibit the stigmatization of 
children who are unable to pay for meals.


                                S. 1084

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1084, a bill to amend title 
18, United States Code, to require that the Director of the Bureau of 
Prisons ensure that each chief executive officer of a Federal penal or 
correctional institution provides a secure storage area located outside 
of the secure perimeter of the Federal penal or correctional 
institution for firearms carried by certain employees of the Bureau of 
Prisons, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1085

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1085, a bill to amend title 
18, United States Code, to provide enhanced penalties for convicted 
murderers who kill or target America's public safety officers.

[[Page S6361]]

  



                                S. 1182

  At the request of Mr. Young, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms. 
Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1182, a bill to require 
the Secretary of the Treasury to mint commemorative coins in 
recognition of the 100th anniversary of The American Legion.


                                S. 1510

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1510, a bill to 
amend the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 to provide for online 
voter registration and other changes and to amend the Help America Vote 
Act of 2002 to improve voting, to require the Election Assistance 
Commission to study and report on best practices for election 
cybersecurity and election audits, and to make grants to States to 
implement those best practices recommended by the Commission.


                                S. 1589

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1589, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the Small Business Act to expand the 
availability of employee stock ownership plans in S corporations, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1595

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the names of the Senator from 
Illinois (Mr. Durbin), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar), the 
Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. 
Coons), the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson), the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin), the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Donnelly) and the 
Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) were added as cosponsors of S. 
1595, a bill to amend the Hizballah International Financing Prevention 
Act of 2015 to impose additional sanctions with respect to Hizballah, 
and for other purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1595, supra.


                                S. 1690

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1690, a bill to 
amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to provide greater support to 
students with dependents, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) and the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Cotton) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1693, a bill to amend the Communications Act 
of 1934 to clarify that section 230 of that Act does not prohibit the 
enforcement against providers and users of interactive computer 
services of Federal and State criminal and civil law relating to sex 
trafficking.


                                S. 1706

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the names of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed), the Senator from California (Ms. Harris) and the 
Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) were added as cosponsors of S. 
1706, a bill to prevent human health threats posed by the consumption 
of equines raised in the United States.


                                S. 1719

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1719, a bill to 
eliminate duties on imports of recreational performance outerwear, to 
establish the Sustainable Textile and Apparel Research Fund, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1756

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the names of the Senator from 
Kentucky (Mr. McConnell), the Senator from Utah (Mr. Hatch), the 
Senator from Kansas (Mr. Roberts), the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. 
Inhofe), the Senator from Missouri (Mr. Blunt) and the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) were added as cosponsors of S. 1756, a bill 
to improve the processes by which environmental documents are prepared 
and permits and applications are processed and regulated by Federal 
departments and agencies, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1823

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the names of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker), the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Strange) and 
the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Thune) were added as cosponsors of 
S. 1823, a bill to amend the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act to clarify that houses of worship are eligible 
for certain disaster relief and emergency assistance on terms equal to 
other eligible private nonprofit facilities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1827

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms. 
Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1827, a bill to extend 
funding for the Children's Health Insurance Program, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1859

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1859, a bill to 
extend the moratorium on the annual fee on health insurance providers.


                                S. 1863

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Alabama (Mr. 
Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1863, a bill to clarify that 
noncommercial species found entirely within the borders of a single 
State are not in interstate commerce or subject to regulation under the 
Endangered Species Act of 1973 or any other provision of law enacted as 
an exercise of the power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce.


                                S. 1883

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1883, a 
bill to require the Secretary of Transportation to publish a final rule 
to provide for the screening, testing, and treatment for sleep 
disorders of individuals operating commercial vehicles.


                                S. 1916

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the names of the Senator from 
Hawaii (Mr. Schatz), the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden), the Senator 
from Ohio (Mr. Brown), the Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth), the 
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez), the Senator from Nevada (Ms. 
Cortez Masto), the Senator from Virginia (Mr. Warner), the Senator from 
Colorado (Mr. Bennet) and the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1916, a bill to prohibit the possession or 
transfer of certain firearm accessories, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 245

  At the request of Mr. Young, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
Res. 245, a resolution calling on the Government of Iran to release 
unjustly detained United States citizens and legal permanent resident 
aliens, and for other purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the names of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner), the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Cotton) and the Senator 
from Florida (Mr. Rubio) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 245, 
supra.

                          ____________________



