

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 172 (Wednesday, October 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 172 (Wednesday, October 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8224-H8225]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself and Mr. Ferguson):
       H.R. 4115. A bill to promote registered apprenticeships and 
     other work-based learning programs for small and medium-sized 
     businesses within in-demand industry sectors, through the 
     establishment and support of industry or sector partnerships; 
     to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DOGGETT (for himself, Mr. Cummings, Ms. DeLauro, 
             Mr. Ellison, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Cicilline, 
             Mr. Cohen, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Higgins of New York, Ms. 
             Kaptur, Mr. Nadler, and Mr. Raskin):
       H.R. 4116. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     require reporting by drug manufacturers to increase 
     transparency in drug pricing, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DOGGETT (for himself, Mr. Cummings, Ms. DeLauro, 
             Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Conyers, 
             Mr. Ellison, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Khanna, 
             Mr. Langevin, Mr. Nadler, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. 
             O'Rourke, Ms. Pingree, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. 
             Raskin, and Ms. Velazquez):
       H.R. 4117. A bill to prohibit brand name drug companies 
     from compensating generic drug companies to delay the entry 
     of a generic drug into the market, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committees on the Judiciary, and Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself, Mr. Amodei, Mr. 
             McNerney, Mr. Welch, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, and Mr. Gosar):
       H.R. 4118. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to extend the publicly traded partnership ownership 
     structure to energy power generation projects and 
     transportation fuels, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. MESSER (for himself, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Hultgren, 
             Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Garrett, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, 
             Mr. Lewis of Minnesota, and Ms. Stefanik):
       H.R. 4119. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to direct the Secretary of Education to develop a plain 
     language disclosure form for borrowers of Federal student 
     loans, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Education 
     and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BERA (for himself, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of 
             Texas, Mr. Lipinski, Ms. Bonamici, and Ms. Rosen):
       H.R. 4120. A bill to provide for a comprehensive 
     interdisciplinary research and development initiative to 
     strengthen the capacity of the electricity sector to 
     neutralize cyber attacks; to the Committee on Science, Space, 
     and Technology, and in addition to the Committees on Homeland 
     Security, and Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CASTRO of Texas (for himself and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 4121. A bill to establish in the United States Agency 
     for International Development an entity to be known as the 
     United States Global Development Lab, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. DeLAURO (for herself, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mrs. 
             Comstock, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. 
             DeFazio, and Ms. Clarke of New York):
       H.R. 4122. A bill to require breast density reporting to 
     physicians and patients by facilities that perform 
     mammograms, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. GOTTHEIMER (for himself and Mr. Francis Rooney 
             of Florida):
       H.R. 4123. A bill to require the Director of National 
     Intelligence, in coordination with the Secretary of State, to 
     submit a report to Congress with respect to North Korea's 
     procurement of engines and technologies from a foreign 
     source, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Intelligence (Permanent Select), and in addition to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. LOFGREN (for herself, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. 
             O'Rourke, Mr. Amash, Mr. Massie, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, and Mr. Farenthold):
       H.R. 4124. A bill to amend the Foreign Intelligence 
     Surveillance Act of 1978 to protect privacy rights and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Intelligence (Permanent 
     Select), Oversight and Government Reform, and Homeland 
     Security, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. LOVE (for herself and Ms. Fudge):
       H.R. 4125. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to provide for comprehensive student achievement information; 
     to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. LOWENTHAL (for himself, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. 
             Deutch, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, and Ms. Tsongas):
       H.R. 4126. A bill to provide for the accurate reporting of 
     fossil fuel production and emissions from public lands, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. LUETKEMEYER (for himself and Mr. Sessions):
       H.R. 4127. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow refunds of Federal motor fuel excise taxes on 
     fuels used in mobile mammography vehicles; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico:
       H.R. 4128. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to allow States with Exchanges with low-insurer 
     participation to offer a Medicaid buy-in plan, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico (for himself, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. Clarke of New 
             York, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Delaney, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Engel, Ms. Eshoo, Ms.

[[Page H8225]]

             Fudge, Mr. Gallego, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. 
             Kihuen, Mr. Langevin, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. O'Rourke, 
             Ms. Rosen, Ms. Titus, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Walz, Ms. 
             Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Takano, Mr. 
             Krishnamoorthi, and Mr. Cicilline):
       H.R. 4129. A bill to establish a State public option 
     through Medicaid to provide Americans with the choice of a 
     high-quality, low-cost health insurance plan; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. O'ROURKE:
       H.R. 4130. A bill to amend title 9, United States Code, 
     with respect to arbitration; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. PITTENGER (for himself, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. 
             Kinzinger, Mr. Fortenberry, Mr. Jordan, Mr. 
             Rohrabacher, Mr. Gohmert, Mrs. Noem, Mrs. Hartzler, 
             Mr. Norman, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Lipinski, Mrs. Black, 
             Mr. Biggs, Mr. Jenkins of West Virginia, Mr. Webster 
             of Florida, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. 
             Cramer, Mr. Walker, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Smith 
             of New Jersey, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. 
             Luetkemeyer, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Mooney of West 
             Virginia, Mr. Rokita, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
             Hudson, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Francis Rooney of Florida, 
             Mr. Dunn, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Banks of 
             Indiana, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Johnson of Louisiana, Mr. 
             Gaetz, Mr. Messer, Mr. Brat, Mr. Williams, Mr. 
             Moolenaar, Mr. Babin, Mr. Harris, Mr. Davidson, Mr. 
             Weber of Texas, Mr. Hultgren, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, 
             Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr. Wittman, Mr. 
             LaMalfa, Mr. Flores, Mr. Rouzer, and Mr. Bost):
       H.R. 4131. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to impose federal taxes on bonds used to provide 
     facilities owned by abortion providers; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. RUTHERFORD (for himself, Mrs. Radewagen, Mr. 
             Coffman, and Mr. Dunn):
       H.R. 4132. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     make certain improvements in the Health Professionals 
     Educational Assistance Program of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. SESSIONS (for himself and Mr. Roe of Tennessee):
       H.R. 4133. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to establish a Medicare payment option for 
     patients and eligible professionals to freely contract, 
     without penalty, for Medicare fee-for-service items and 
     services, while allowing Medicare beneficiaries to use their 
     Medicare benefits; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SIMPSON:
       H.R. 4134. A bill to redesignate the White Clouds 
     Wilderness in the Sawtooth and Challis National Forests in 
     the State of Idaho as the Cecil D. Andrus-White Clouds 
     Wilderness in honor of former Idaho Governor and Secretary of 
     the Interior Cecil D. Andrus; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. SMITH of Missouri (for himself, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. 
             Rodney Davis of Illinois, Ms. DelBene, and Mr. Danny 
             K. Davis of Illinois):
       H.R. 4135. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to increase the exclusion for educational assistance 
     programs; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SMITH of Missouri (for himself, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. 
             Mullin, and Mr. Bera):
       H.R. 4136. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to strengthen intensive cardiac rehabilitation 
     programs under the Medicare program; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. STEFANIK:
       H.R. 4137. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to modify the credit for electricity produced from 
     certain renewable resources and the investment credit for 
     certain qualified investment credit facilities; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. WILSON of Florida (for herself, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, 
             Mr. Rush, Ms. Lee, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, 
             Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Clay, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. 
             Veasey, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Payne, Mr. Lawson of 
             Florida, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. Clyburn, 
             Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. McEachin, Ms. Fudge, Ms. 
             Clarke of New York, Mr. Richmond, Ms. Bass, and Ms. 
             Kelly of Illinois):
       H. Con. Res. 86. Concurrent resolution condemning the 
     racist and hate-based attacks on our college campuses and 
     reaffirming our support for inclusion and safety in our 
     institutions of higher learning; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. WILSON of Florida (for herself, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, 
             Mr. Rush, Ms. Lee, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, 
             Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Clay, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. 
             Veasey, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Payne, Mr. Lawson of 
             Florida, Mr. Evans, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. 
             Clyburn, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Ms. Fudge, Ms. Clarke 
             of New York, Ms. Moore, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. 
             Richmond, Ms. Bass, Mrs. Beatty, and Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts):
       H. Con. Res. 87. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of the Congress that temporary protected status for Haitian 
     nationals should be extended until that country has 
     demonstrably recovered from the 2010 earthquake, the cholera 
     epidemic, Hurricane Matthew, and other disasters; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. ADAMS (for herself, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Judy Chu 
             of California, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mrs. Murphy of 
             Florida, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. 
             Evans, Mr. Schneider, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Grijalva, 
             Mr. Hastings, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Pallone, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. 
             Hanabusa, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Norton, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Mr. Payne, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Moulton, 
             Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Crist, Ms. Bass, Mr. 
             Carson of Indiana, Mrs. Demings, Mr. McNerney, and 
             Mr. Price of North Carolina):
       H. Res. 586. A resolution recognizing the growth and 
     importance of minority women-owned businesses; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. ESTY of Connecticut (for herself, Mr. Courtney, 
             Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, and Mr. 
             Himes):
       H. Res. 587. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the deduction for State and local 
     taxes is beneficial and should remain intact; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself, Mr. Chabot, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Bacon, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. 
             Norman, Mr. Evans, Mr. Marshall, Mrs. Murphy of 
             Florida, Mr. Comer, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mr. King 
             of Iowa, Mr. Schneider, Mrs. Radewagen, Ms. Adams, 
             and Mr. Knight):
       H. Res. 588. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of National Veterans Small Business Week; to the Committee on 
     Small Business.

                          ____________________



