

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 153 (Monday, September 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S5888-S5889]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




    SENATE RESOLUTION 267--DESIGNATING SEPTEMBER 2017 AS ``NATIONAL 
                     WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT MONTH''

  Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr. Hatch, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Enzi, Mr. 
Barrasso, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Donnelly, Mr. Durbin, Ms. Harris, Mr. 
Roberts, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Franken, Ms. Hassan, Ms. Hirono, and Mr. 
Kaine) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the 
Committee on the Judiciary:

                              S. Res. 267

       Whereas investment in the education and training of the 
     United States workforce is crucial to the ability of the 
     United States to compete in the global economy;
       Whereas collaboration among local educational agencies, 
     community colleges, Governors, local governments, local 
     businesses, employment service providers, and workforce 
     development boards provides for long-term, sustainable, and 
     successful workforce development across traditional sectors 
     and emerging industries;
       Whereas, as of September 2017, middle-skill jobs, which 
     require more than a high school diploma but not a 4-year 
     degree, comprise 53 percent of the labor market, but only 43 
     percent of United States workers are trained at that level, 
     creating a discrepancy that may limit growth in changing 
     industries such as health care, manufacturing, and 
     information technology;
       Whereas, in 2014, Congress reauthorized the Workforce 
     Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.) with 
     overwhelming bipartisan support in recognition of the need to 
     strengthen the focus of the United States on the skills 
     necessary to fill jobs in local and regional industries;
       Whereas the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 
     U.S.C. 3101 et seq.) supports employment, training, and 
     support services for individuals with barriers to employment, 
     including individuals--
       (1) who are out of work;
       (2) displaced by outsourcing;
       (3) looking to learn new skills; and
       (4) with disabilities;
       Whereas the more than 550 workforce development boards and 
     2,500 American Job Centers are a driving force behind growing 
     regional economies by providing training, resources, and 
     assistance to workers who aim to compete in the 21st century 
     economy;
       Whereas ongoing State and local implementation of the 
     Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3101 et 
     seq.) provides unprecedented opportunities to develop the 
     skills of United States workers through access to effective 
     workforce education and training, including the development 
     and delivery of proven strategies such as sector 
     partnerships, career pathways, integrated education and 
     training, work-based learning models, and paid internships;
       Whereas, in 2015, programs authorized under the Workforce 
     Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.)--
       (1) served nearly 7,000,000 young people and adults;
       (2) exceeded employment targets across all programs; and
       (3) helped more than 1,500,000 individuals, including 
     English language learners, take classes to gain skills and 
     credentials to help the individuals succeed in the labor 
     market;
       Whereas State programs established under the Wagner-Peyser 
     Act (29 U.S.C. 49 et seq.)--
       (1) served nearly 14,000,000 unemployed workers through 
     American Job Centers in 2015; and
       (2) are an integral part of the workforce development 
     system;
       Whereas workforce development programs will play a critical 
     role in addressing the expected 2,000,000 unfilled 
     manufacturing jobs over the next decade;
       Whereas community colleges and other workforce development 
     training providers across the United States are well-
     situated--
       (1) to train the next generation of United States workers; 
     and
       (2) to address the educational challenges created by 
     emerging industries and technological advancements;
       Whereas participation in a career and technical education 
     (referred to in this preamble as ``CTE'') program decreases 
     the risk of students dropping out of high school, and all 50 
     States and the District of Columbia report higher graduation 
     rates for CTE students, as compared to other students;
       Whereas community and technical colleges operate as open 
     access institutions serving millions of students annually at 
     a comparatively low cost;
       Whereas the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education 
     Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.) supports the development 
     and implementation of high-quality CTE programs that--
       (1) combine rigorous academic content with occupational 
     skills; and
       (2) served 11,900,000 high school and college students from 
     2015 to 2016;
       Whereas there are nearly 500,000 registered apprentices in 
     the United States, and there is growing and bipartisan 
     support for expanding earn-and-learn strategies to help 
     current and future workers gain skills and work experience;
       Whereas federally supported workforce system and partner 
     programs--
       (1) have helped the United States rebuild the economy and 
     provide increased economic opportunities; and
       (2) provide a pathway into jobs that support families while 
     ensuring that United States businesses find the skilled 
     workforce needed to compete in the global economy; and
       Whereas workforce development is crucial to sustaining 
     economic security for United States workers: Now, therefore, 
     be it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) designates September 2017 as ``National Workforce 
     Development Month'';
       (2) supports Federal initiatives to promote workforce 
     development; and
       (3) acknowledges that workforce development plays a crucial 
     role in supporting workers and growing the economy.

  Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce a resolution 
to recognize September as Workforce Development Month.
  As technological advances reshape traditional fields and fuel the 
emergence of new industries, it is imperative that our workforce 
development system remain agile and flexible in order to educate and 
train the next generation of workers and those needing additional on-
the-job training skills to stay competitive.
  In addition, it is vital that we recognize the importance of all 
career pathways and professional development whether an individual 
pursues a 4-year degree or seeks to further their education at a 
community college, through an industry recognized certificate program, 
or as an apprentice.
  In an effort to face this challenge head on, Congress passed the 
Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act in 2014 with overwhelming 
bipartisan support. WIOA was signed into law by President Obama and has 
helped streamline the workforce development system while increasing and 
strengthening partnerships between regional businesses, workforce 
development boards, and educational institutions.
  In fact, it is these partnerships that have proven to be key to 
regional success at addressing the workforce needs of businesses. By 
working together, local businesses and educators can ensure that not 
only do businesses have access to the talent they need to grow but that 
those seeking work can find it.
  Nationwide, the more than 550 workforce development boards and 2,500 
American Job Centers have become a driving force behind growing 
regional economies by providing training, resources, and assistance to 
workers aiming to compete in the 21st century economy.
  These workforce development boards and American Job Centers work with 
job seekers and employers across industries ranging from healthcare and 
information technology to manufacturing and construction.
  There are currently nearly half a million registered apprentices 
across the country, including nearly fifty thousand in California 
alone.
  Bipartisan support for earn-and-learn approaches such as 
apprenticeships and paid internships is critical for helping future 
workers gain the skills and experience they need while being able to 
provide for themselves and their families.
  In recognition of workforce development month, Congress reaffirms its 
support for a comprehensive approach to workforce development, 
encourages partnerships between industry leaders and educators, and 
emphasizes the importance of all career pathways in pursuit of economic 
prosperity.
  In closing, during this month it is essential that we acknowledge and 
commend the professionals who work every day to make these efforts a 
reality. America's workforce is the backbone of our economy and it is 
the expertise, dedication, and knowledge of these professionals that 
has helped develop such a robust system.

[[Page S5889]]

  Mr. President, I hope my colleagues will join me in supporting this 
resolution and encouraging the continued growth of our workforce 
development system.

                          ____________________



