

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8595-H8597]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. MacARTHUR:
       H.R. 4263. A bill to amend the Securities Act of 1933 with 
     respect to small company capital formation, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. BISHOP of Utah:
       H.R. 4264. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior 
     to convey certain Bureau of Land Management land in Cache 
     County, Utah, to the City of Hyde Park for public purposes; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. FOXX (for herself, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Dent, 
             Ms. Speier, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Rush, Mr. 
             Chabot, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Hensarling, Mr. Garamendi, 
             Mr. Shuster, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mrs. Brooks 
             of Indiana, Mr. Kind, Mrs. Black, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. 
             Frelinghuysen, Mr. Schneider, Mr. Barletta, Mr. 
             Meadows, Mr. Smucker, Mr. Latta, Mr. Sensenbrenner, 
             Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Massie, Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Banks of Indiana, Mr. Collins of 
             Georgia, Mr. Womack, Mr. DesJarlais, Mrs. Walorski, 
             Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. 
             Brat, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, 
             Mr. Fleischmann, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Ms. Shea-Porter, 
             Ms. Sinema, and Mr. Stewart):

[[Page H8596]]

  

       H.R. 4265. A bill to modernize the sugar program under the 
     Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996, to 
     provide for the repeal of the feedstock flexibility program 
     for bioenergy producers under the Farm Security and Rural 
     Investment Act of 2002 and marketing allotments for sugar 
     under the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. POLIQUIN (for himself and Ms. Pingree):
       H.R. 4266. A bill to clarify the boundary of Acadia 
     National Park, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. STIVERS (for himself, Mr. Sherman, Mr. McHenry, 
             and Ms. Moore):
       H.R. 4267. A bill to amend the Investment Company Act of 
     1940 to change certain requirements relating to the capital 
     structure of business development companies, to direct the 
     Securities and Exchange Commission to revise certain rules 
     relating to business development companies, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE (for herself, Mr. Conyers, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Ms. Norton, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Lewis of 
             Georgia, Ms. DeLauro, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Clay, Ms. 
             Judy Chu of California, Mr. Takano, Mr. Cicilline, 
             and Mr. Nadler):
       H.R. 4268. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide for a 7-day waiting period before a semiautomatic 
     firearm, a silencer, armor piercing ammunition, or a large 
     capacity ammunition magazine may be transferred; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. SEWELL of Alabama (for herself and Mr. Danny K. 
             Davis of Illinois):
       H.R. 4269. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to eliminate the school voucher State tax credit 
     loophole by limiting the double benefit of charitable 
     contributions; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BARR:
       H.R. 4270. A bill to amend the Federal Reserve Act to 
     ensure transparency in the conduct of monetary policy, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for herself, Mr. 
             Conyers, Ms. Lofgren, Ms. Lee, Mrs. Dingell, Ms. 
             Meng, Mrs. Napolitano, and Ms. Hanabusa):
       H.R. 4271. A bill to block the implementation of certain 
     presidential actions that restrict individuals from certain 
     countries from entering the United States; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Foreign Affairs, Homeland Security, and Intelligence 
     (Permanent Select), for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Crist, 
             Mr. Engel, Mr. Evans, Mr. Gomez, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. 
             Jayapal, Mr. Khanna, Ms. Lee, and Ms. McCollum):
       H.R. 4272. A bill to include community partners and 
     intermediaries in the planning and delivery of education and 
     related programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. DeGETTE (for herself, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Engel, 
             Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, and Ms. Gabbard):
       H.R. 4273. A bill to prohibit the sale or distribution of 
     tobacco products to individuals under the age of 21; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DeSANTIS (for himself, Mr. Dunn, Mr. Meadows, 
             Mr. Walker, Mr. Labrador, Mr. Perry, Mr. Brat, Mr. 
             Yoho, Mr. Budd, Mr. Norman, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. 
             Webster of Florida, Mr. Francis Rooney of Florida, 
             Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. 
             Farenthold, and Mr. Buck):
       H.R. 4274. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to provide for accreditation reform, to require institutions 
     of higher education to publish information regarding student 
     success, to provide for fiscal accountability, and to provide 
     for school accountability for student loans; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. DeSAULNIER (for himself and Mr. Carter of 
             Georgia):
       H.R. 4275. A bill to provide for the development and 
     dissemination of programs and materials for training 
     pharmacists, health care providers, and patients on 
     indicators that a prescription is fraudulent, forged, or 
     otherwise indicative of abuse or diversion, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. DINGELL:
       H.R. 4276. A bill to amend the Help America Vote Act of 
     2002 to require voting systems used in elections for Federal 
     office to produce a voter-verified, auditable paper record of 
     the votes cast in such elections, to require State election 
     officials to audit the results of such elections prior to 
     certifying the results, to provide grants to States to 
     improve voting system security, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on House Administration, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GUTIERREZ (for himself and Mr. Espaillat):
       H.R. 4277. A bill to ensure that the Federal share of the 
     costs of certain assistance relating to Hurricanes Irma and 
     Maria is 100 percent, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. HILL:
       H.R. 4278. A bill to ensure that the operations of the 
     Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System remain 
     independent from the credit policy of the United States, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH:
       H.R. 4279. A bill to direct the Securities and Exchange 
     Commission to revise any rules necessary to enable closed-end 
     companies to use the securities offering and proxy rules that 
     are available to other issuers of securities; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. KELLY of Mississippi:
       H.R. 4280. A bill to provide for the sunset of rules one 
     year after the date on which they are finalized, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KIHUEN (for himself and Mr. Mooney of West 
             Virginia):
       H.R. 4281. A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 to expand access to capital for rural-area small 
     businesses, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. KING of New York (for himself, Mr. McCaul, Mr. 
             Perry, Mrs. Comstock, and Mr. Donovan):
       H.R. 4282. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to direct the Director of the Office of Refugee 
     Resettlements of the Department of Health and Human Services 
     to establish additional procedures for making placement 
     determinations for all unaccompanied alien children who are 
     in Federal custody by reason of their immigration status, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire (for herself and Mr. 
             Lance):
       H.R. 4283. A bill to encourage States to require the 
     installation of residential carbon monoxide detectors in 
     homes, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on House 
     Administration, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. LATTA (for himself, Mr. McKinley, Mr. Barton, 
             and Mr. Johnson of Ohio):
       H.R. 4284. A bill to establish a Federal Coordinator within 
     the Department of Health and Human Services, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LoBIONDO (for himself, Mr. Norcross, Mr. 
             MacArthur, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Mr. Gottheimer, 
             Mr. Pallone, Mr. Lance, Mr. Sires, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. 
             Payne, Mr. Frelinghuysen, and Mrs. Watson Coleman):
       H.R. 4285. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 123 Bridgeton Pike in 
     Mullica Hill, New Jersey, as the ``James C. `Billy' Johnson 
     Post Office Building''; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. LOEBSACK:
       H.R. 4286. A bill to direct the Secretary of Labor to carry 
     out a grant program for employers to develop and carry out 
     job training programs for veterans; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico (for himself, Ms. 
             Clarke of New York, Mr. Evans, Mr. Khanna, Ms. 
             Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. McNerney, 
             Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. Polis, Mr. Ruiz, and Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio):
       H.R. 4287. A bill to establish a broadband infrastructure 
     finance and innovation program to make available loans, loan 
     guarantees, and lines of credit for the construction and 
     deployment of broadband infrastructure, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. McCAUL (for himself and Mr. Pittenger):
       H.R. 4288. A bill to enhance the security of Taiwan and 
     bolster its participation in the international community, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Armed Services, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia (for himself and Mr. 
             Barr):
       H.R. 4289. A bill to amend the Dodd-Frank Wall Street 
     Reform and Consumer Protection Act to repeal certain 
     disclosure requirements related to coal and mine safety; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.

[[Page H8597]]

  

           By Mr. QUIGLEY:
       H.R. 4290. A bill to require the Attorney General to study 
     whether an individual's history of domestic violence can be 
     used to determine the likelihood of such individual 
     committing a mass shooting; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. STEFANIK:
       H.R. 4291. A bill to utilize loans and loan guarantees 
     under the rural broadband access program to provide broadband 
     service for agricultural producers and to provide universal 
     service support for installation charges for broadband 
     service for agricultural producers in order to improve 
     precision farming and ranching, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. ZELDIN (for himself and Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney 
             of New York):
       H.R. 4292. A bill to reform the living will process under 
     the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection 
     Act; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. ZELDIN:
       H.R. 4293. A bill to reform the Comprehensive Capital 
     Analysis and Review process, the Dodd-Frank Act Stress Test 
     process, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. CROWLEY (for himself and Mr. Chabot):
       H. Con. Res. 90. Concurrent resolution condemning ethnic 
     cleansing of the Rohingya and calling for an end to the 
     attacks in and an immediate restoration of humanitarian 
     access to the state of Rakhine in Burma; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. LEVIN (for himself, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Fitzpatrick, 
             and Mr. Harris):
       H. Res. 608. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the 85th anniversary of the Ukrainian 
     Famine-Genocide of 1932-1933 (Holodomor) should serve as a 
     reminder of repressive Soviet policies against the people of 
     Ukraine; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. ALLEN (for himself and Ms. Esty of Connecticut):
       H. Res. 610. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of November 9, 2017, as ``National Diabetes Heart 
     Health Awareness Day'', coinciding with American Diabetes 
     Month; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H. Res. 611. A resolution recognizing the denial of full 
     voting rights in Congress for veterans and their families who 
     are District of Columbia residents; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.

                          ____________________



