

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 171 (Tuesday, October 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8080]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        A TRUE AMERICAN PATRIOT

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Minnesota (Mr. Emmer) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the career and service 
of Major General Richard C. Nash. Major General Nash recently retired 
after serving as adjutant general of the Minnesota National Guard for 7 
years.
  In his role as adjutant general, Nash had the important 
responsibility of overseeing Minnesota's Army and Air National Guard 
units, an important role where he saw great success. Having served in 
the Army National Guard since 1976, General Nash was selected for the 
job of general because of his experience and strong leadership during 
the conflict in Bosnia and the Iraq war.
  During his time in the National Guard, as a testament to his hard 
work and commitment to our great Nation, General Nash has received many 
awards like the Bronze Star and the Meritorious Service Medal.
  General Richard Nash is a true patriot whose service to our Nation 
has been a blessing to us all. I speak for all Minnesotans when I thank 
him for his dedication and wish him the best in his well-deserved 
retirement.


                     Minnesota's Honorary Caregiver

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor the life of Carlene Johnston 
and the beautiful partnership she shared with her loving husband, Dan 
Johnston.
  Originally diagnosed with breast cancer in 2012, Carlene passed away 
in 2016, after a long and hard fight. Carlene's devoted husband, Dan, 
stood by his wife's side through every moment, keeping his marriage vow 
to love his wife in health and in sickness.
  On the day that Carlene passed, Dan shared in a post that caring for 
his wife in her final days was easy, writing: When you're helping 
someone you love, it's not a burden.
  As tribute to Dan's and Carlene's strong marriage and Dan's 
commitment to caring for his sick wife, Dan was awarded the Waconia 
Relay for Life's 2017 Honorary Caregiver Award.
  Our most sincere condolences go out to the Johnston family, and we 
thank Dan for epitomizing love in its truest form. You are an amazing 
role model.


                  Bringing the World Expo to Minnesota

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to support Minnesota's bid to 
host the 2023 World Expo. I was proud to cosponsor and see both 
Chambers of Congress unanimously pass the U.S. Wants to Compete for a 
World Expo Act earlier this year to give Minnesota and the United 
States a chance to showcase the best we have to offer.
  The President signed the Expo Act into law in May, and since then, 
the State Department, the Expo 2023 coalition, and the entire Minnesota 
delegation have been working hard to bring this prestigious 
international event back to the United States.
  Now, as we near the November 15 announcement from the Bureau of 
International Expositions, Minnesota is one of the three finalists in 
the running to host the 2023 event with a proposed theme of ``Healthy 
People, Healthy Planet.''
  I can think of no better place to hold such an event, as Minnesota is 
one of the healthiest States in the country, a hub for medical 
innovation and a world-class location to host the first Expo in the 
United States in more than 30 years.
  I am grateful for the support of my colleagues in Congress and the 
President to make this opportunity a reality, and I look forward to 
putting the United States and the State of Minnesota back on the world 
stage as the host of the 2023 World Expo.


                    A Top Honor for Sherburne County

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the Sherburne 
County Sheriff's Office for receiving accreditation from the American 
Correctional Association. Sherburne County received this accreditation 
because of the quality of the county jail and the high standards the 
staff maintains.
  The accreditation was actually earned by the 116 correctional 
officers who operate the jail and the strong leadership of Sherburne 
County Sheriff Joel Brott.
  This is quite an accomplishment. In fact, out of Minnesota's 87 
counties, only one other county jail in Minnesota received this 
accreditation. Congratulations to Sheriff Brott and his officers. We 
are proud to represent you and to work for you.

                          ____________________



