

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 162 (Tuesday, October 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 162 (Tuesday, October 10, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H7898-H7899]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   JANET CAPELLO POST OFFICE BUILDING

  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 2254) to designate the facility of the United States Postal 
Service located at 2635 Napa Street in Vallejo, California, as the 
``Janet Capello Post Office Building''.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 2254

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. JANET CAPELLO POST OFFICE BUILDING.

       (a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal 
     Service located at 2635 Napa Street in Vallejo, California, 
     shall be known and designated as the ``Janet Capello Post 
     Office Building''.
       (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
     document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
     facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be 
     a reference to the ``Janet Capello Post Office Building''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Montana (Mr. Gianforte) and the gentleman from California (Mr. Gomez) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Montana.


                             General Leave

  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks 
and to include extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Montana?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2254, introduced by 
Congressman Mike Thompson from California. The bill designates the post 
office located at 2635 Napa Street in Vallejo, California, as the Janet 
Capello Post Office Building.
  Janet Capello was a prominent citizen in her Vallejo, California, 
community. Born in 1935, she served on the city's Planning Commission, 
the Civil Service Commission, and the Charter Review Committee, among 
others. She loved her community, and she gave back in whatever way she 
could before passing away in 2012.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve 
the balance of my time.
  Mr. GOMEZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I am pleased to join my colleagues in consideration of H.R. 2254, a 
bill to designate the facility of the United States Post Service 
located at 2635 Napa Street in Vallejo, California, as the Janet 
Capello Post Office Building.
  H.R. 2254 was introduced this year by my colleague and friend from 
California, Mr. Thompson. Unfortunately, Mr. Thompson is unable to be 
here today, as he has remained in his district in California this 
evening to assist in wildfire relief and recovery efforts. I am, along 
with the entire House of Representatives, praying for Mr. Thompson and 
our fellow Americans in this time of need.
  A lifelong resident of Vallejo, California, and granddaughter of 
Italian immigrants, Janet Capello took great pride in her heritage. Her 
deepest passion was the Sons of Italy, an organization where she served 
as a dedicated member of Lodge Number 1626 for over 63 years.
  She held two of the organization's most prestigious posts--vice 
president of the Grand Lodge of California, and Secretary of the United 
Lodges--and led efforts to bring the group's scholarship program to 
Vallejo. In doing so, she helped hundreds of young men and women attend 
college.
  Ms. Capello oversaw a number of charity efforts, and helped raise 
thousands of dollars each year for Alzheimer's research in conjunction 
with the University of California-Davis. Ms. Capello's dedication to 
these causes earned her the Dr. Vincenzo Sellaro Award, the highest 
honor granted by the Sons of Italy.
  In addition to these accomplishments, Janet Capello was an active 
participant in local Vallejo politics, serving on the city's Planning 
Commission, the Civil Service Commission, and the Charter Review 
Committee, and others, and was an active member of the St. Vincent 
Ferrer Catholic Church until her passing in 2012, at the age of 77.
  Mr. Speaker, we should pass this bill to commemorate the life of 
Janet Capello, and recognize the lasting contributions she has made to 
the Vallejo community.
  I urge the passage of H.R. 2254, and I yield back the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the bill, and I yield 
back the balance of my time.

[[Page H7899]]

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Montana (Mr. Gianforte) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 2254.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



