

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 177 (Wednesday, November 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6964]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             TRIBUTE TO BRIGADIER GENERAL STEVEN P. BULLARD

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, today I wish to congratulate Brig. Gen. 
Steven P. Bullard of the Kentucky Air National Guard as he begins his 
retirement after more than three decades of achievement, service, and 
sacrifice. This Nation and the Commonwealth of Kentucky thank him for 
his diligence in defending our safety and security.
  Brigadier General Bullard has served as the chief of staff, 
Headquarters, for the Kentucky Air National Guard and the deputy chief 
of the Joint Staff, Joint Force Headquarters-Kentucky National Guard 
since 2012. In these roles, he has been responsible for the guidance 
and direction of more than 8,500 Army and Air Guardsman in my home 
State. Brigadier General Bullard has skillfully carried out his 
responsibilities in these positions, as well as the duties of his 
civilian role as director of the division of administrative services 
within the Kentucky Department of Military Affairs.
  On numerous projects, he was the critical link between my office and 
the Kentucky Guard. I know that many on my staff who have had the 
privilege of interacting with him have appreciated Brigadier General 
Bullard's dependability and talent, which I am told also extends to the 
golf course.
  Entering officer training school at Lackland Air Force Base in 1985, 
Brigadier General Bullard took the first steps of his decorated 
military career. He later achieved the rating of master navigator, 
having completed more than 5,500 flight hours on various aircraft. Over 
the years, Brigadier General Bullard flew missions in 75 countries, 
including a deployment to Afghanistan during Operation Enduring 
Freedom. One might think that, with such aviation skill, he would have 
more luck traveling as a passenger on commercial air, but his 
colleagues report that throughout his career, a number of commercial 
flights he has traveled on have experienced weather or maintenance 
delays resulting in numerous nights in the airport for the trained 
airman.
  Brigadier General Bullard has earned and been awarded numerous 
military awards and decorations for his selfless service to the 
Commonwealth and his Nation. These honors include the Bronze Star 
Medal, the Meritorious Service Medal with two bronze oakleaf clusters, 
the Air Medal with one bronze oakleaf cluster, and the Kentucky 
Distinguished Service Medal. These awards are recognition of Brigadier 
General Bullard's distinguished actions on behalf of our Nation and 
Kentucky.
  The men and women of Kentucky's National Guard serve a unique mission 
in our Armed Forces. Their efforts to help fight our Nation's wars, 
defend our homeland, provide relief from natural disasters, and 
maintain critical State, Federal, and international partnerships in 
support of our Nation's safety and security have demonstrated the vital 
nature of the National Guard's service. I am proud to represent them in 
the U.S. Senate, and I am grateful for their sacrifice on behalf of our 
Commonwealth and our Nation.
  As we celebrate Brigadier General Bullard's retirement, we are also 
saddened to lose such a capable and dedicated public servant. In 
addition to his responsibilities at headquarters, Brigadier General 
Bullard has also worked as the chairman of the Louisville Armed Forces 
Committee, two terms as the president of the National Guard Association 
of Kentucky, and as the volunteer executive director of the Kentucky 
Committee for Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve. On behalf of 
the people of Kentucky, I would like to thank him for his 32 years of 
achievement and service. He has earned a relaxing retirement, spending 
time with his family and friends. Finally, I would ask my colleagues in 
the Senate to join me in paying tribute to Brigadier General Bullard, a 
brave American, a selfless public servant, and a proud Kentuckian.

                          ____________________



