

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 154 (Tuesday, September 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7490]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  REAUTHORIZE THE MATERNAL, INFANT, AND EARLY CHILDHOOD HOME VISITING 
                                PROGRAM

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of 
reauthorizing the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting 
Program, known as MIECHV, which the House is expected to consider later 
today.
  Proudly, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania was one of the earliest 
adopters of evidence-based State policies and has utilized MIECHV to 
aid more than 4,000 families statewide. MIECHV-supported home visiting 
programs are widely embraced on both sides of the aisle. The programs 
have a proven record of success, and they support the Nation's most 
vulnerable families during a critical and crucial time in their 
children's development.
  Parents truly are the children's first teachers, and the results 
speak for themselves. MIECHV helps improve maternal and newborn health. 
It reduces child injuries, abuse, and neglect. It improves school 
readiness and achievement. It reduces crime and domestic violence. It 
improves family economic self-sufficiency.
  Mr. Speaker, during the home visiting process, nurses, social 
workers, educators, and other trained professionals form relationships 
with the expectant parents and visit with them until their child has 
completed his or her first year of school. This model of care empowers 
parents to make healthy decisions that positively impact their child's 
health, well-being, and learning development.
  In Pennsylvania, MIECHV's funds support four evidence-based home 
visiting models. These include Early Head Start, Healthy Families 
America, Nurse-Family Partnership, and Parents as Teachers. MIECHV 
funding plays a critical role in helping increase the availability of 
these services to more and more families across the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania.
  Scientific research has supported claims that these services 
positively impact health, education, and employment outcomes for 
children while reducing criminal justice costs, instances of child 
abuse, and independence on public assistance.
  These services can also play a key role in helping to support infants 
and mothers struggling with addiction. Pennsylvania has a long history 
of evidence-based home visiting programs because they are a proven way 
to strengthen families and improve the lives of children.
  For these reasons, I look forward to supporting H.R. 2824, the 
Increasing Opportunity and Success for Children and Parents through 
Evidence-Based Home Visiting Act, when it comes to the House floor this 
afternoon.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to do the same.

                          ____________________



