

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8443-H8444]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. BRADY of Texas (for himself, Mr. Ryan of 
             Wisconsin, Mr. Sam Johnson of Texas, Mr. Nunes, Mr. 
             Tiberi, Mr. Reichert, Mr. Roskam, Mr. Buchanan, Mr. 
             Smith of Nebraska, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, Mr. 
             Paulsen, Mr. Marchant, Mrs. Black, Mr. Reed, Mr. 
             Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. Renacci, Mr. Meehan, Mrs. 
             Noem, Mr. Holding, Mr. Smith of Missouri, Mr. Rice of 
             South Carolina, Mr. Schweikert, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. 
             Curbelo of Florida, and Mr. Bishop of Michigan):
       H.R. 1. A bill to provide for reconciliation pursuant to 
     title II of the concurrent resolution on the budget for 
     fiscal year 2018; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. MIMI WALTERS of California (for herself, Ms. 
             Stefanik, and Mrs. McMorris Rodgers):
       H.R. 4219. A bill to amend the Employee Retirement Income 
     Security Act of 1974 to include a voluntary option for 
     qualified flexible workplace arrangements; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH:
       H.R. 4220. A bill to adopt a certain California 
     flammability standard as a Federal flammability standard to 
     protect against the risk of upholstered furniture 
     flammability and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself, Ms. Maxine 
             Waters of California, and Mr. Michael F. Doyle of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 4221. A bill to amend the Violent Crime Control and 
     Law Enforcement Act of 1994, to reauthorize the Missing 
     Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, and to promote 
     initiatives that will reduce the risk of injury and death 
     relating to the wandering characteristics of some children 
     with autism; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Crist, 
             Ms. Frankel of Florida, Ms. Norton, Mr. Higgins of 
             New York, and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 4222. A bill to amend the Older Americans Act of 1965 
     to provide equal treatment of LGBT older individuals, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Crowley, Mr. 
             Yoho, Mr. Sherman, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Castro of Texas, 
             and Mr. Franks of Arizona):
       H.R. 4223. A bill to promote democracy and human rights in 
     Burma, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, and in addition to the Committees on Financial 
     Services, the Judiciary, Armed Services, and Ways and Means, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. HANABUSA (for herself and Ms. Gabbard):
       H.R. 4224. A bill to authorize the temporary entry into the 
     United States of alien crewmen employed on longline fishing 
     vessels originating in Hawaii, to ensure that such aliens 
     receive reasonable wages and working conditions, and to 
     provide for appropriate enforcement and oversight of fishing 
     companies employing such aliens; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees on Education and 
     the Workforce, and Transportation and Infrastructure, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HUDSON:
       H.R. 4225. A bill to amend the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act by clarifying that State Exchanges are 
     prohibited from imposing fees or assessments on issuers of 
     excepted benefits and standalone dental plans not sold 
     through an Exchange; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. KIND (for himself and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 4226. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     designate certain medical facilities of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs as health professional shortage areas, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LATTA (for himself, Mr. Marchant, Mr. Bucshon, 
             Mr. Chabot, Mr. Walberg, Ms. Kaptur, Miss Gonzalez-
             Colon of Puerto Rico, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of 
             New Mexico, and Mr. Renacci):
       H.R. 4227. A bill to require the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to examine what actions the Department of Homeland 
     Security is undertaking to combat the threat of vehicular 
     terrorism, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself and Ms. DeGette):
       H.R. 4228. A bill to amend the Department of Energy 
     Organization Act to establish a biennial commission to 
     develop a comprehensive energy policy for the United States; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS (for herself, Mr. Aderholt, 
             Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Blum, Mr. 
             Bucshon, Mr. Collins of Georgia, Mr. Collins of New 
             York, Mr. Cook, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Duffy, Mr. Duncan of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Gallagher, Mr. 
             Gianforte, Mr. Graves of Georgia, Mr. Graves of 
             Missouri, Mr. Griffith, Mr. Harper, Mrs. Hartzler, 
             Mr. Jenkins of West Virginia, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, 
             Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Ms. Kaptur, 
             Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. King of Iowa, Ms. 
             Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Lamborn, 
             Mr. Latta, Mr. Long, Mr. Luetkemeyer, Mr. Marino, Mr. 
             Marshall, Mr. Moulton, Mrs. Noem, Mr. Rogers of 
             Alabama, Mr. Rothfus, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mr. 
             Smith of Missouri, Mr. Tiberi, Mr. Tipton, Mr. 
             Turner, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Welch, Mr. Young of Iowa, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Allen, 
             Mr. Visclosky, Mr. Kelly of Mississippi, Mr. Mullin, 
             and Mr. Loebsack):
       H.R. 4229. A bill to extend the transition to new payment 
     rates for durable medical equipment under the Medicare 
     program and amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to 
     update the Medicare budget neutrality requirement for oxygen; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MEADOWS (for himself, Mr. MacArthur, Mr. Biggs, 
             Mr. Norman, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Perry, Mr. Jordan, and Mr. 
             Buck):
       H.R. 4230. A bill to require the timely publication of any 
     research source code and data used by a Federal agency in 
     assessing the costs and benefits of new regulations, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. NORMAN (for himself, Mr. Gosar, Mr. McClintock, 
             Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, 
             Mr. Perry, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Buck, Mr. 
             Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Brat, Mr. Babin, Mr. 
             Allen, and Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia):
       H.R. 4231. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     provide requirements for agency decision making based on 
     science; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. POCAN (for himself, Ms. Stefanik, Mrs. Bustos, 
             Mr. Huffman, and Mr. Rogers of Kentucky):
       H.R. 4232. A bill to amend the Rural Electrification Act of 
     1936 to provide grants for access to broadband 
     telecommunications services in rural areas, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RENACCI (for himself and Mr. Rice of South 
             Carolina):
       H.R. 4233. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to prevent the fraudulent overreporting of income with 
     respect to the earned income tax credit and the additional 
     child tax credit; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. RENACCI (for himself, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Stivers, 
             and Mr. Moulton):
       H.R. 4234. A bill to amend the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
     Assistance Act to authorize college and career counseling for 
     homeless children and youths; to the Committee on Education 
     and the Workforce, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Financial Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself and Mr. Estes 
             of Kansas):
       H.R. 4235. A bill to authorize a review of financial 
     services industry requirements of the People's Republic of 
     China and the implications of such requirements on national 
     security interests of the United States; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Foreign Affairs, and Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CHABOT (for himself, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Adams, 
             Mr. Bacon, Mr. Blum, Mr. Brat, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Comer, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Mr. Evans, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Miss Gonzalez-
             Colon of Puerto Rico, Mr. Kelly of Mississippi, Mr. 
             King of

[[Page H8444]]

             Iowa, Mr. Knight, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mr. 
             Luetkemeyer, Mr. Marshall, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, 
             Mr. Norman, Mrs. Radewagen, Mr. Schneider, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. Delaney, Ms. 
             Hanabusa, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Ms. McCollum, Mr. 
             Takano, Ms. Slaughter, and Mr. Swalwell of 
             California):
       H. Res. 603. A resolution recognizing November 25, 2017, as 
     ``Small Business Saturday'' and supporting efforts to 
     increase awareness of the value of locally owned small 
     businesses; to the Committee on Small Business.
           By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Poliquin, and Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H. Res. 604. A resolution amending the Rules of the House 
     of Representatives to require each Member, officer, and 
     employee of the House to complete the program of sexual 
     harassment prevention and response training in employment 
     which is offered by the Office of Compliance, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Ethics, and in addition to the 
     Committee on House Administration, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.

                          ____________________



