

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S6920]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           VERMONT FEDERAL EXECUTIVE ASSOCIATION 2017 AWARDS

 Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, to commemorate Public Service 
Recognition Week, the Vermont Federal Executive Association recognized 
Federal employees with Excellence in Government awards. Vermont is 
fortunate to have thousands of Federal employees working across the 
State, and I am proud of the good work they do for their fellow 
citizens. I would like to offer special congratulations to the 2017 
award winners, who have truly exemplified the very best in government.
  The recipients of the Excellence in Management and Program Support 
Award are the Vermont Service Center Employee Services Team, U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services, St. Albans, including Steffan 
Defeo, supervisory operational support specialist; Julie Kuhn, 
supervisory operational support specialist; Angelina Bucio, operational 
support specialist; Joreen Hatin, supervisory immigration services 
officer; Michael Kane, supervisory immigration services officer; Forest 
Glodgett, operational support specialist; Ann Gratton, operational 
support specialist; Lee Ann Jette, operational support specialist; Lisa 
Kline, operational support specialist; and Sarah Sherman, operational 
support specialist.
  The recipients of the Professional Award are the Vermont Service 
Center Phase 1--Strategic Plan Team, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services, St. Albans, including Judith Hochberg, section chief; Kyle 
Davis, supervisory immigration services officer; Joreen Hatin, 
supervisory immigration services officer; Michael Kane, supervisory 
immigration services officer; Michael Hoeflich, supervisory immigration 
services analyst; Paul Novak III, supervisory immigration services 
analyst; Elizabeth Chester, management and program analyst; Forest 
Glodgett, operational support specialist; Miranda Baltzell, immigration 
services officer; Luke Fairman, immigration services officer; Lisa 
Labarge, immigration services officer; Janet Marantz, immigration 
services officer; Ryan Marlow, immigration services officer; Nathan 
Matusick, immigration services officer; Sara Rutanhira, immigration 
services officer; Susan Sheehan, immigration services officer; Danielle 
Spooner, immigration services officer; Shelly Walters, immigration 
services officer; and Brian Woods, immigration services officer.
  The recipient of the Leadership Award is Michael Parascando, 
supervisory special agent, Homeland Security Investigations Tip Line, 
Office of Intelligence, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, 
Williston.
  The recipient of the Public Safety Award is John Marquissee, Border 
Patrol agent, U.S. Border Patrol, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, 
Derby.
  The recipient of the Community Service Award is Julia Hoefel, 
immigration services analyst, Northeast Regional Office, U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services, South Burlington.
  The recipients of the Collaboration and Partnership Award are Linette 
Boyse and Erin Hakey, immigration services analysts, Process 
Improvement and Efficiency Team, Vermont Service Center, U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services, St. Albans.
  The recipient of the Valor Award is Christopher Whipple, U.S. Customs 
and Border Protection officer, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, 
Highgate Springs.
  And finally, the recipient of the Vermont Federal Employee of the 
Year Award is Amelia Palmer human resource specialist, Recruitment and 
Placement Branch, Human Resources Operations Center, U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services, South Burlington.
  Once again, I congratulate these Vermont Federal employees.

                          ____________________



