

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 178 (Thursday, November 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7001-S7002]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) was added as a cosponsor of S. 236, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic 
beverages.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 322, a bill to protect 
victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating 
violence from emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts of 
violence or threats of violence against their pets.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage of 
certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of durable 
medical equipment.


                                 S. 514

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 514, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out a pilot program to provide 
access to magnetic EEG/EKG-guided resonance therapy to veterans.


                                 S. 620

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 620, a bill 
to amend the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act to support 
community college and industry partnerships, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 654, a bill to revise section 48 
of title 18, United States Code, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 699

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 699, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
furnish mental and behavioral health care to certain individuals 
discharged or released from the active military, naval, or air service 
under conditions other than honorable, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 783

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 783, a bill to amend the Public 
Health Service Act to distribute maternity

[[Page S7002]]

care health professionals to health professional shortage areas 
identified as in need of maternity care health services.


                                 S. 807

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. 
Klobuchar), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons), the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) and the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. 
Kennedy) were added as cosponsors of S. 807, a bill to provide anti-
retaliation protections for antitrust whistleblowers.


                                 S. 833

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 833, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to expand health care and benefits from the 
Department of Veterans Affairs for military sexual trauma, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 992

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 992, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to conduct an independent review of the 
deaths of certain veterans by suicide, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1002

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the names of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) and the Senator from Virginia (Mr. Warner) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1002, a bill to enhance the ability of community 
financial institutions to foster economic growth and serve their 
communities, boost small businesses, increase individual savings, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1014

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1014, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to make grants to eligible organizations 
to provide service dogs to veterans with severe post-traumatic stress 
disorder, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1027

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1027, a bill to extend the Secure Rural 
Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000.


                                S. 1089

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1089, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Energy to review and update a report on the energy and 
environmental benefits of the re-refining of used lubricating oil.


                                S. 1109

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1109, a bill to amend 
title VIII of the Public Health Service Act to extend advanced 
education nursing grants to support clinical nurse specialist programs, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1357

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1357, a bill to 
amend title XIX of the Social Security Act to provide a standard 
definition of therapeutic family care services in Medicaid.


                                S. 1568

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the names of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin), the Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters) and the Senator 
from New Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) were added as cosponsors of S. 1568, a 
bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in 
commemoration of President John F. Kennedy.


                                S. 1707

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Florida (Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1707, a bill to 
amend the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 to provide for a standard 
medical expense deduction under the supplemental nutrition assistance 
program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1977

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) and the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1977, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to extend the 7.5 percent threshold for the medical expense 
deduction for individuals age 65 or older.


                                S. 2042

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2042, a bill to 
authorize a joint action plan and report on drug waste.


                              S. RES. 315

  At the request of Mr. Hoeven, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 315, a resolution 
designating November 4, 2017, as National Bison Day.

                          ____________________



