

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 181 (Tuesday, November 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7062-S7064]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 236, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic 
beverages.


                                 S. 256

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 256, a bill to 
establish the Stop, Observe, Ask, and Respond to Health and Wellness 
Training pilot program to address human trafficking in the health care 
system.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to 
amend the Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving 
through the mail shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection and to require the provision of advance electronic 
information on shipments of mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 445, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure more timely access to home 
health services for Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage 
of certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of durable 
medical equipment.


                                 S. 591

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 591, a bill to expand 
eligibility for the program of comprehensive assistance for family 
caregivers of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to expand benefits 
available to participants under such program, to enhance special 
compensation for members of the uniformed services who require 
assistance in everyday life, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 611

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 611, a bill to 
amend the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act to meet the needs of 
homeless children, youth, and families, and honor the assessments and 
priorities of local communities.


                                 S. 708

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 708, a bill to 
improve the ability of U.S. Customs and Border Protection to interdict 
fentanyl, other synthetic opioids, and other narcotics and psychoactive 
substances that are illegally imported into the United States, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 794

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the names of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Thune) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 794, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act in order to improve the process whereby Medicare 
administrative

[[Page S7063]]

contractors issue local coverage determinations under the Medicare 
program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 801

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Wyoming (Mr. 
Barrasso) was added as a cosponsor of S. 801, a bill to amend the Fair 
Labor Standards Act of 1938 to provide compensatory time for employees 
in the private sector.


                                 S. 872

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 872, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to make permanent the extension of the 
Medicare-dependent hospital (MDH) program and the increased payments 
under the Medicare low-volume hospital program.


                                 S. 925

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 925, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the ability of health 
care professionals to treat veterans through the use of telemedicine, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 937

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 937, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for a refundable adoption 
tax credit.


                                S. 1014

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1014, a bill to 
direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to make grants to eligible 
organizations to provide service dogs to veterans with severe post-
traumatic stress disorder, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1109

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden), the Senator from Montana (Mr. Tester) and the Senator from 
New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were added as cosponsors of S. 1109, a 
bill to amend title VIII of the Public Health Service Act to extend 
advanced education nursing grants to support clinical nurse specialist 
programs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1198

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1198, a bill to 
protect individuals who are eligible for increased pension under laws 
administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs on the basis of need 
of regular aid and attendance from dishonest, predatory, or otherwise 
unlawful practices, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1218

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1218, a bill to 
promote Federal employment for veterans, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1323

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1323, a bill to preserve 
United States fishing heritage through a national program dedicated to 
training and assisting the next generation of commercial fishermen, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1333

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1333, a bill to provide 
for rental assistance for homeless or at-risk Indian veterans.


                                S. 1539

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey), the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) 
and the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin) were added as cosponsors of 
S. 1539, a bill to protect victims of stalking from gun violence.


                                S. 1591

  At the request of Mr. Van Hollen, the names of the Senator from 
Montana (Mr. Tester), the Senator from Nevada (Ms. Cortez Masto), the 
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) and the Senator from Hawaii 
(Mr. Schatz) were added as cosponsors of S. 1591, a bill to impose 
sanctions with respect to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1611

  At the request of Mr. Hoeven, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1611, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to allow the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs to enter into certain agreements with non-Department of 
Veterans Affairs health care providers if the Secretary is not feasibly 
able to provide health care in facilities of the Department or through 
contracts or sharing agreements, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1621

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1621, a bill to require the 
Federal Communications Commission to establish a methodology for the 
collection by the Commission of information about commercial mobile 
service and commercial mobile data service, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1624

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1624, a bill to 
prohibit the use of chlorpyrifos on food, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1690

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1690, a bill to 
amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to provide greater support to 
students with dependents, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Barrasso), the Senator from Iowa (Mr. Grassley) and the Senator 
from Utah (Mr. Hatch) were added as cosponsors of S. 1693, a bill to 
amend the Communications Act of 1934 to clarify that section 230 of 
that Act does not prohibit the enforcement against providers and users 
of interactive computer services of Federal and State criminal and 
civil law relating to sex trafficking.


                                S. 1719

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1719, a bill to eliminate 
duties on imports of recreational performance outerwear, to establish 
the Sustainable Textile and Apparel Research Fund, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1782

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Barrasso) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1782, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to modify the definition of full-time 
employee for purposes of the employer mandate in the Patient Protection 
and Affordable Care Act.


                                S. 1829

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1829, a bill to 
amend title V of the Social Security Act to extend the Maternal, 
Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting Program.


                                S. 1871

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1871, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to clarify the role of podiatrists in the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1927

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1927, a bill to amend 
section 455(m) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 in order to allow 
adjunct faculty members to qualify for public service loan forgiveness.


                                S. 1936

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1936, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to provide for the designation of State 
approving agencies for multi-State apprenticeship programs for purposes 
of the educational assistance programs of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1988

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr.

[[Page S7064]]

Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1988, a bill to streamline 
broadband infrastructure permitting on established public rights-of-
way, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2001

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2001, a bill to 
establish a State public option through Medicaid to provide Americans 
with the choice of a high-quality, low-cost health insurance plan.


                                S. 2023

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2023, a bill to require a study 
regarding security measures and equipment at Cuba's airports, require 
the standardization of Federal Air Marshal Service agreements, require 
efforts to raise international aviation security standards, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2037

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2037, a bill to amend the 
Higher Education Act of 1965 regarding proprietary institutions of 
higher education in order to protect students and taxpayers.


                                S. 2044

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from 
Virginia (Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2044, a bill to 
amend title 18, United States Code, to protect more victims of domestic 
violence by preventing their abusers from possessing or receiving 
firearms, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2045

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from 
Virginia (Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2045, a bill to 
establish a grant program to encourage States to adopt certain policies 
and procedures relating to the transfer and possession of firearms.


                                S. 2060

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2060, a bill to promote 
democracy and human rights in Burma, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2065

  At the request of Mr. Young, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen), the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Cassidy) and 
the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Gardner) were added as cosponsors of S. 
2065, a bill to establish a demonstration program to provide integrated 
care for Medicare beneficiaries with end-stage renal disease, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2080

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden), the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), the Senator 
from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. 
Markey) were added as cosponsors of S. 2080, a bill to increase the 
role of the financial industry in combating human trafficking.


                              S. RES. 139

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth), the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Moran), the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy), the Senator from Tennessee (Mr. Alexander), 
the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley), the Senator from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. Toomey), the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) and the 
Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) were added as cosponsors of S. 
Res. 139, a resolution condemning the Government of Iran's state-
sponsored persecution of its Baha'i minority and its continued 
violation of the International Covenants on Human Rights.


                              S. RES. 250

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 250, a resolution 
condemning horrific acts of violence against Burma's Rohingya 
population and calling on Aung San Suu Kyi to play an active role in 
ending this humanitarian tragedy.


                              S. RES. 279

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 279, a 
resolution reaffirming the commitment of the United States to promote 
democracy, human rights, and the rule of law in Cambodia.

                          ____________________



