

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9796-H9797]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




     MOUNT NITTANY VINEYARD AND WINERY WINS BEST OF CATEGORY AWARD

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
congratulate a great agribusiness, a successful part of our number one 
industry in Pennsylvania, which is agriculture.
  One out of every seven Pennsylvanians owe their job directly or 
indirectly to agriculture, and today I rise to congratulate one of 
those agribusinesses, the Mount Nittany Vineyard and Winery, for 
winning a Best of Category award at this year's Atlantic Seaboard Wine 
Association competition. Mount Nittany Vineyards and Winery took home 
one gold, six silver, and two bronze awards in the mid-Atlantic 
competition.
  Located just 6 miles from State College and Penn State University, 
Mount Nittany Vineyard and Winery is located above the historic village 
of Linden Hall. It boasts breathtaking views across Penns Valley to the 
Tussey Mountain range.
  Mount Nittany Vineyard and Winery won Best of Category for its 2016 
Geisenheim wine. Joe and Betty Carroll founded the winery, and it 
opened for business i 1990. Mount Nittany Vineyard and Winery now 
produces 16,000 gallons of wine each year and harvests anywhere from 12 
to 15 tons of grapes annually.

  It is now owned and managed by Joe and Betty's daughter and son-in-
law, Linda and Steve Weaver. Linda and Steve continue to produce award-
winning wines, including fruit wines out of locally sourced cherries, 
apples, blueberries, and raspberries.
  Mr. Speaker, proudly, Linda and Steve Weaver will be on Capitol Hill 
tomorrow for the Atlantic Seaboard Wine Association awards ceremony. I 
wholeheartedly congratulate the Weavers on this outstanding 
recognition. I wish them the best as they continue to grow, make, and 
produce their fine wines in Centre County.


           APPLAUDING CONTINE CORPORATION ON OSHA DESIGNATION

  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize 
the exceptional achievement of Contine Corporation in Erie, 
Pennsylvania.
  Contine Corporation is a manufacturer of mechanical and

[[Page H9797]]

electromechanical assemblies built to customer specifications. In its 
more than three decades in operation, it has expanded the facility 
three times, acquired a plastic injection molding business, and 
developed quality employees and suppliers to serve its customers.
  Recently, Contine Corporation received approval from the Occupational 
Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA, as a SHARP participant. 
SHARP stands for Safety and Health Achievement Recognition Program. 
This is one of the highest honors OSHA awards to a worksite.
  Since 1995, OSHA has been recognizing small business worksites that 
have shown a continuous commitment to improving the safety and health 
of their workplace through the OSHA Consultation Program. Fewer than 
1,600 worksites across the country currently share the honor of SHARP 
recognition.
  Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Constance Ellrich, owner of the Contine 
Corporation; safety manager, Randall Groves; and the entire Contine 
workforce for its dedication to workforce safety.
  Ensuring a safe and healthy working environment protects a business' 
viability, and, most importantly, it protects American workers.

                          ____________________



