

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 147 (Tuesday, September 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S5215]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. BURR (for himself, Mr. Casey, and Ms. 
             Murkowski):
       S. 1790. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to improve college savings under section 529 programs, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. ERNST (for herself and Mr. Enzi):
       S. 1791. A bill to amend the Act of August 25, 1958, 
     commonly known as the ``Former Presidents Act of 1958'', with 
     respect to the monetary allowance payable to a former 
     President, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. FRANKEN:
       S. 1792. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to provide formula grants to States to improve higher 
     education opportunities for foster youth and homeless youth, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself and Mr. Thune):
       S. 1793. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to enhance taxpayer rights, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. ROUNDS (for himself, Mr. Barrasso, and Mr. 
             Inhofe):
       S. 1794. A bill to prohibit the Environmental Protection 
     Agency from proposing, finalizing, or disseminating 
     regulations or assessments based upon science that is not 
     transparent or reproducible; to the Committee on Environment 
     and Public Works.
           By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself and Mr. Portman):
       S. 1795. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to improve the financial aid process for homeless children 
     and youths and foster care children and youth; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself and Mr. Lee):
       S. 1796. A bill to require a report on the military and 
     security ramifications of the new ground-launched cruise 
     missile of the Russian Federation, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Mr. Blumenthal):
       S. 1797. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to ensure health insurance coverage continuity for former 
     foster youth; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. VAN HOLLEN (for himself, Mr. Schatz, and Mr. 
             Booker):
       S. 1798. A bill to establish a Federal standard in order to 
     improve the Nation's resilience to current and future flood 
     risk; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself, Mr. Gardner, Mr. Bennet, 
             Mr. Durbin, Mr. Manchin, and Ms. Harris):
       S. 1799. A bill to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to 
     facilitate the commercialization of energy and related 
     technologies developed at Department of Energy facilities 
     with promising commercial potential; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself and Mr. Tillis):
       S. 1800. A bill to require a report on significant security 
     risks of the national electric grid and the potential effect 
     of any such security risks on the readiness of the Armed 
     Forces; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mrs. Feinstein, Ms. Baldwin, 
             and Ms. Hirono):
       S. 1801. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to require institutions of higher education to have an 
     independent advocate for campus sexual assault prevention and 
     response; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.

                          ____________________



