

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 208 (Wednesday, December 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 208 (Wednesday, December 20, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H10249-H10250]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         REMEMBER OUR MILITARY PERSONNEL THIS CHRISTMAS SEASON

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, as individuals across the 
country travel near and far to be with loved ones this holiday season, 
I ask that we remember our military personnel who will not be 
surrounded by family and friends this Christmas. Instead, our military 
men and women

[[Page H10250]]

will be stationed all over the world to protect and defend the United 
States of America.
  There are about 1.3 million military personnel on Active Duty who 
serve in more than 170 countries. While it is not easy to be away from 
family, it is especially difficult during the holidays.
  But, Mr. Speaker, events like American Red Cross' Holiday Mail for 
Heroes card-signing campaign lets our troops know that we are keeping 
them in our thoughts and prayers. Since 2007, the Holiday Mail for 
Heroes program has provided Americans the opportunity to extend holiday 
greetings, expressions of gratitude, and well wishes to servicemembers, 
veterans, and their families. Last year, the Red Cross distributed 
thousands of cards to troops across the globe.
  As we are extending our support to military personnel serving 
overseas, the Marine Corps Reserve is giving back to those who are less 
fortunate right here in our own backyard. Toys for Tots, which was 
founded in 1947 by Reservist Major Bill Hendricks, collects new, 
unwrapped toys each year and distributes them as Christmas gifts to 
children in need. As of 2016, Toys for Tots collected and distributed 
more than 512 million toys to less fortunate children.
  That kind of selflessness truly embodies the spirit of Christmas.
  Mr. Speaker, we cannot forget to honor our fallen heroes this 
Christmas season. One of our finest holiday traditions that honors our 
fallen servicemembers took place last Saturday: Wreaths Across America.
  Many Americans can recall the iconic photograph of wreaths on the 
tombstones at Arlington National Cemetery. Snow blankets the ground. 
Red ribbons adorn the balsam wreaths, which lay on rows of tombstones 
as far as the eye can see.
  This annual tribute began in 1992 by a Maine wreathmaker named 
Morrill Worcester, who donated 5,000 wreaths to Arlington National 
Cemetery in honor of our fallen heroes.
  Today, Wreaths Across America has grown into a national organization. 
A total of 1.2 million wreaths were placed on markers across the 
country in more than 1,200 locations, with more than 200,000 at 
Arlington National Cemetery alone. The mission is to remember, honor, 
and teach. Morrill describes the wreaths as a symbol of honor, respect, 
and victory.
  As we celebrate with our loved ones, let us remember all of our 
military men and women, especially those we lost in service to this 
Nation. Thank you to Morrill and to all the volunteers who honor their 
memory.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank all of our troops serving at home and overseas. 
I wish them a Merry Christmas and a happy New Year.
  Merry Christmas and God bless America.

                          ____________________



