

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 206 (Monday, December 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 206 (Monday, December 18, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H10179-H10180]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania:
       H.R. 4666. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     provide for a Patient and State Stability Fund; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN:
       H.R. 4667. A bill making further supplemental 
     appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2018, 
     for disaster assistance for Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and 
     Maria, and calendar year 2017 wildfires, and

[[Page H10180]]

     for other purposes; to the Committee on Appropriations, and 
     in addition to the Committee on the Budget, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CHABOT (for himself and Ms. Velazquez):
       H.R. 4668. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     provide for the establishment of a enhanced cybersecurity 
     assistance and protections for small businesses, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Small Business.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 4669. A bill to ensure independent investigations by 
     allowing judicial review of the removal of a special counsel, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself and Mr. Katko):
       H.R. 4670. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide authority for certain members of the Armed Forces to 
     transfer entitlement to Post-9/11 Educational Assistance to 
     their dependents; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. DUFFY (for himself and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 4671. A bill to assist and incentivize organic 
     agriculture by expanding its access to, and eligibility for, 
     Federal rural development and agricultural loan programs; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Ms. ESHOO (for herself, Mr. Pallone, and Mrs. 
             Torres):
       H.R. 4672. A bill to further deployment of Next Generation 
     9-1-1 services to enhance and upgrade the Nation's 9-1-1 
     systems, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Science, 
     Space, and Technology, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. ESTY of Connecticut (for herself, Mrs. Walorski, 
             Mrs. Mimi Walters of California, and Mrs. Bustos):
       H.R. 4673. A bill to create opportunities for women in the 
     aviation industry; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mrs. LOVE:
       H.R. 4674. A bill to amend the Congressional Accountability 
     Act of 1995 to require Members of Congress to reimburse the 
     Treasury for payments of awards and settlements under such 
     Act which are made in connection with claims of sexual 
     harassment committed by the Members, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. MARSHALL (for himself, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Smith 
             of Texas, and Mr. Weber of Texas):
       H.R. 4675. A bill to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to 
     provide for a low-dose radiation basic research program; to 
     the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. McCAUL:
       H.R. 4676. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Treasury 
     to prescribe regulations to expand sanctions against persons 
     owned or controlled by Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. MOULTON (for himself and Mr. Kelly of 
             Mississippi):
       H.R. 4677. A bill to improve certain programs of the Small 
     Business Administration to better assist small business 
     customers in accessing broadband technology, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Small Business.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 4678. A bill to permit the District of Columbia to 
     make payments pursuant to contingency fee arrangements 
     entered into by the Attorney General of the District of 
     Columbia for the provision of legal services in claims and 
     other legal mattes affecting the interests of the District of 
     Columbia, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. REED (for himself and Mr. Reichert):
       H.R. 4679. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for improvements to coverage and 
     payment under the Medicare program for new drugs, devices, 
     and technology; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. POLIS:
       H. Con. Res. 97. Concurrent resolution Directing the Clerk 
     of the House of Representatives to make corrections in the 
     enrollment of H.R. 1; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and 
     in addition to the Committee on House Administration, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.

                          ____________________



