

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9184]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              IN RECOGNITION OF TRANSGENDER AWARENESS WEEK

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Florida (Ms. Ros-Lehtinen) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize Transgender 
Awareness Week to bring attention to the challenges that transgender 
individuals still face today.
  Our great country was founded on the values of opportunity and 
freedom. Unfortunately, we hear about bills and a public discourse that 
only seek to divide and discriminate against this vulnerable 
population.
  Transgender individuals are active members of our community. They are 
our friends, our neighbors, and our children.
  As the mother of a transgender son, I know that there is a great need 
for public understanding of gender identity. These are Americans who 
have the same hopes, the same dreams as everybody else, and should not 
be treated differently from their peers.
  Mr. Speaker, the reality is that transgender Americans around the 
country work hard and want to succeed and provide for themselves and 
their families. They deserve to be fully protected under our laws.
  We must come together as a country to say no to prejudice, no to 
discrimination, and no to harassment. That begins by respecting, by 
accepting, and by embracing each individual.


                 Congratulations to Dr. Eduardo Padron

  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I would like to congratulate Dr. 
Eduardo Padron on being selected into the board of trustees of the 
Urban Institute.
  The Urban Institute is among our Nation's leading public policy think 
tanks, with a mission to open minds, to shape decisions, and to offer 
solutions.
  It is not hard to see why it selected Dr. Padron as its board member. 
Dr. Padron serves as the president of my alma mater, Miami Dade 
College, and he has dedicated his life and his career to advocate on 
behalf of underserved populations.
  Throughout his presidency, Miami Dade College has been propelled into 
a position of national prominence, and it is a shining example for how 
a college can bring about real and positive change in a community.
  Dr. Padron's efforts and strong record of service have helped 
transform the lives of many in my community of south Florida, and I am 
confident that his tenure at the Urban Institute will be a successful 
one.
  Once again, Dr. Padron, ``felicidades,'' ``congratulations.''

                              {time}  1030


            Recognizing Stanley Tate for His Public Service

  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay recognition to a 
true Florida icon, Mr. Stanley Tate.
  Hailing from Miami, Stanley is a man committed to public service and 
helping those who need it most. He has dedicated his life to serving as 
a voice for the voiceless and has never ceased to put the needs of 
others before his own.
  I am proud to have had the opportunity to have worked extensively 
with Mr. Tate throughout my time in the Florida State Legislature. 
Together, we pioneered many great initiatives, including the creation 
of the Florida Prepaid College Plan that is our Nation's premier 
savings plan to improve opportunities in the Sunshine State and advance 
higher education.
  In addition to his many accomplishments, Stanley has remained a 
strong advocate for our Nation's leading and closest ally, the 
democratic Jewish State of Israel. He has remained steadfast in his 
commitment to fight issues like BDS and anti-Semitism, and I join him 
in his fight toward equality and acceptance for all.
  Mr. Speaker, I wish Stanley Tate the best in his future endeavors, 
and I thank him for his tireless service to our community.


                 Issues Associated with Climate Change

  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to renew my commitment to 
addressing the many issues associated with climate change and to urge 
my colleagues to help be part of the answer by joining the bipartisan 
Climate Solutions Caucus.
  My home district of Miami has experienced the impact of climate 
change firsthand. In Miami Beach, my constituents experienced ever-more 
frequent king tides that flood the streets with saltwater. Across all 
of south Florida, beaches and coastlines continue to erode away. These 
are just a few of the examples of the real consequences of sea level 
rise, which is a direct consequence of climate change. These facts 
cannot be ignored.
  I would like to thank our colleagues Congressmen Carlos Curbelo and 
Ted Deutch, the founders and co-chairs of this important caucus, for 
recognizing that we cannot afford to ignore climate change any longer. 
It is not just a Florida issue. It impacts our entire country. I am 
proud to be a part of this diverse group of Members seeking to answer 
some of the most difficult questions associated with climate change and 
work on practical solutions to mitigate its effects and build a more 
resilient nation.

                          ____________________



