

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 194 (Wednesday, November 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 194 (Wednesday, November 29, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7403-S7404]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]


                        ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION

  Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control 
Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain 
proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification, 
the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be 
reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the 
notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
  In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant 
information is available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous consent to 
have printed in the Record the notifications which have been received. 
If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is 
available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations 
Committee, room SD-423.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 17-58, 
     concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and 
     Acceptance to the Government of Singapore for defense 
     articles and services estimated to cost $381 million. After 
     this letter is delivered to your office, we plan to issue a 
     news release to notify the public of this proposed sale.
           Sincerely,
                                                Charles W. Hooper,
                                Lieutenant General, USA, Director.
       Enclosures.


                         Transmittal No. 17-58

  Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to Section 
          36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as amended

       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Singapore.
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment* $13 million.
       Other $402 million.
       Total $415 million.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase: Follow-on support 
     and services related to Singapore's Continental United States 
     (CONUS) F-15 detachment PEACE CARVIN V.
       Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
       Forty (40) GBU-10 Paveway II Laser Guided Bomb (LGB) Units, 
     consisting of: MXU-651B/B Air Foil Groups (AFG), MAU-209C/B 
     or MAU-169L/B Computer Control Groups (CCG), MK-84 or BLU-
     117B/B Bomb Bodies.
       Eighty four (84) GBU-12 Paveway II LGB Units, consisting 
     of: MXU-650C/B AFG, MAU-209CM or MAU-168UB CCGs, MK-82 or 
     BLU-111B/B Bomb Bodies.
       Sixty (60) FMU-152 or FMU-139D/B Fuzes.
       Non-MDE: Also included are AIM-120 Telemetry Kits; target 
     drones; High-Bandwidth Compact Telemetry Module kits; 
     exercise participation support; weapons, Electronic Combat 
     International Security Assistance Program (ECISAP), and 
     systems support; medical support; vehicle and ferry support; 
     airlift and aerial refueling; individual equipment; 
     maintenance, spare and repair parts; publications and 
     technical documentation; personnel training and training 
     equipment; U.S. Government and contractor, logistics, and 
     technical support services; and other related elements of 
     logistical and program support.
       (iv) Military Department: Air Force (SN-D-NAG).
       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: SN-D-NDA.
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid. Offered, or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached 
     Annex.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: November 29, 
     2017.
       *As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          POLICY JUSTIFICATION

    Singapore--Follow-On Support for PEACE CARVIN V (F-15 Training 
                              Detachment)

       The Government of Singapore has requested to purchase forty 
     (40) GBU-10 Paveway II Laser Guided Bomb (LGB) units, 
     consisting of: MXU-651B/B Air Foil Groups (AFG), MAU-209C/B 
     or MAU-169L/B Computer Control Groups (CCG), MK-84 or BLU-
     117B/B bomb bodies; eighty four (84) GBU-12 Paveway II LGB 
     units, consisting of: MXU-650C/B AFG, MAU-209C/B or MAU-168L/
     B CCGs, MK-82 or BLU-111B/B bomb bodies; and sixty (60) FMU-
     152 or FMU-139D/B fuzes. Also included are AIM-120 Telemetry 
     Kits; target drones; High-Bandwidth Compact Telemetry Module 
     kits; exercise participation support; weapons, Electronic 
     Combat International Security Assistance Program

[[Page S7404]]

     (ECISAP), and systems support; medical support; vehicle and 
     ferry support; airlift and aerial refueling; individual 
     equipment; maintenance, spare and repair parts; publications 
     and technical documentation; personnel training and training 
     equipment; U.S. Government and contractor, logistics, and 
     technical support services; and other related elements of 
     logistical and program support. The estimated cost is $415 
     million.
       This proposed sale will contribute to the foreign policy 
     and national security of the United States by helping to 
     improve the security of a critical regional partner that has 
     been, and continues to be, an important force for economic 
     progress in Southeast Asia.
       This potential sale will continue to improve Singapore's 
     ability to develop mission-ready and experienced pilots to 
     support its F-15 aircraft inventory. The well-established 
     pilot proficiency training program at Mountain Home Air Force 
     Base will support professional interaction and enhance 
     operational interoperability with U.S. Forces. Singapore will 
     have no difficulty absorbing this equipment and support into 
     its armed forces.
       The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not 
     alter the basic military balance in the region.
       There is no prime contractor involved in this proposed 
     sale. Manpower support will be determined through competition 
     with defense articles anticipated to come from U.S. stocks, 
     as needed. Sources of supply will award contracts when 
     necessary to provide the defense articles if items are not 
     available from U.S. stock or are considered long lead-time 
     away. There are no known offset agreements proposed in 
     connection with this potential sale.
       Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the 
     assignment of any additional U.S. Government or contractor 
     representatives to Singapore.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale.


                         Transmittal No. 17-58

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act

                           Annex Item No. vii

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
       1. This potential sale will involve the release of 
     sensitive technology to the Government of Singapore, 
     including Paveway II (PWII) Laser Guided Bombs (LGB) GBU-10 
     and -12. The PWII LGBUs have an overall export classification 
     of CONFIDENTIAL. The related subcomponents: MXU-209 C/B or 
     MAU-169 L/B control and guidance kits, FMU-152 or FMU-139D/B 
     fuzes, MK-82 or BLU-111 B/B bomb bodies, and MK-84 or BLU-117 
     B/B bomb bodies are UNCLASSIFIED.
       2. The PWII LGB, is a maneuverable, free-fall weapon that 
     guides to a spot of laser energy reflected off of the target. 
     The LGB is delivered like a normal general purpose (GP) bomb 
     and the semi-active guidance corrects for many of the normal 
     errors inherent in any delivery system. Laser designation for 
     the LGB can be provided by a variety of laser target markers 
     or designators. An LGB consists of a Computer Control Group 
     (CCG) that is not warhead specific and warhead specific Air 
     Foil Group (AFG) that attaches to the nose and tail of a GP 
     bomb body. The PWII can use either the FMU-152 or FMU-139D/B 
     fuzes. Singapore currently has FMU-152 fuzes available and 
     will be purchasing additional compatible fuzes to support new 
     munitions requirements.
       a. GBU-10 is a 2,0001b (MK-84 or BLU-117 B/B) GP bomb body 
     fitted with the MXU-651 AFG, and MAU-209C/B or MAU-169 L/B 
     CCG to guide to its laser designated target.
       b. GBU-12 is a 5001b (MK-82 or BLU-111 B/B) GP bomb body 
     fitted with the MXU-650 AFG, and MAU-209C/B or MAU-168L/B 
     CCGs to guide to its laser designated target.
       3. FMU-152 fuzes are a multifunction, multiple delay fuze 
     system with hardened target capabilities that provide arming 
     and fuzing functions for general purpose and penetrating, 
     unitary warheads. The fuze can set or reset during munitions 
     buildup, aircraft loading, ground servicing, or during flight 
     from the cockpit. The system includes the fuze, closure ring, 
     FZU-63 initiator, and power cable. The hardware is 
     UNCLASSIFIED.
       4. AIM-120 Telemetry Kits Non-Development Item/Airborne 
     Instrument Units (NDI/AIU) hardware are UNCLASSIFIED. The 
     NDU/AIU includes a telemetry transmitter, a flight 
     termination system, a C-band beacon and upper S-band 
     capability to include antenna. The NDI/AIU will be used for 
     Singapore's participation in Continental United States 
     (CONUS) based exercises and shall not be released, 
     transferred, or exported to Singapore. All data shall only be 
     collected, transmitted or reviewed by qualified U.S. 
     personnel.
       5. The High-Bandwidth Compact Telemetry Modules (HCTM) and 
     Telemetry Cable Kits hardware are UNCLASSIFIED. HCTM are used 
     for Joint Direct Attack Munition integration, developmental, 
     or operational testing; and will be used for Singapore's 
     participation in Continental United States (CONUS) based 
     exercises and shall not be released, transferred, or exported 
     to Singapore. All data shall only be collected, transmitted 
     or reviewed by qualified U.S. personnel.
       6. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain 
     knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the 
     information could be used to develop countermeasures that 
     might reduce weapon system effectiveness or be used in the 
     development of a system with similar or advanced 
     capabilities.
       7. A determination has been made that Singapore can provide 
     substantially the same degree of protection for the sensitive 
     technology being released as the U.S. Government. This 
     proposed sale is necessary to further the U.S. foreign policy 
     and national security objectives outlined in the Policy 
     Justification.
       8. All defense articles and services listed on this 
     transmittal are authorized for release and export to the 
     Government of Singapore.

                          ____________________



