

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 159 (Wednesday, October 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 159 (Wednesday, October 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7754]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF MR. GEORGE HAMILTON

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. Carter) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 
life of Mr. George Hamilton, who passed away on August 4, 2017, at 88 
years old.
  Mr. Hamilton graduated from the University of Georgia School of 
Pharmacy and owned and operated his own private pharmacy. He was the 
owner of Hamilton's Apothecary in the heart of downtown Savannah, where 
he was the primary pharmacist for many citizens of Savannah.
  It wasn't just his products that brought in his customers, but the 
genuine care that he showed for people. He opened his business mainly 
because of his genuine love for neighbors and community. If someone 
could not afford to purchase their desperately needed medicine, he 
would give it to them for free. He also stocked his store with basic 
groceries to keep the elderly people who lived near his store from 
having to make a long walk to the grocery store.
  Aside from being passionate about his profession, Mr. Hamilton 
watched, with his children, his beloved Georgia Bulldogs play almost 
every Saturday.
  I thank Mr. Hamilton for his dedication to the Savannah community and 
the profession of pharmacy. He will truly be missed.


               Remembering the Life of Mr. Hermon Butler

  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 
life of Mr. Hermon Butler, Sr., who passed away on August 21, 2017, at 
81 years.
  Mr. Butler was a man who wore many hats in the Pembroke, Georgia, 
community. He worked at a barber shop for many years before serving as 
a Bryan County probate judge.
  During his judgeship, he hosted three or four city-famous roadside 
feasts a year, where he cooked quail, venison, chicken, barbecued pork, 
and low country boil on the courthouse grounds. His events became 
extremely popular and eventually garnered the title of Cafe, more 
specifically, the Road Kill Cafe, because of the large amount of 
choices he served. He served not only courthouse staff and law 
enforcement, but people from across Pembroke and the State of Georgia, 
including some of the State's highest officials.
  He retired in 2000, and his roadside feasts were special for anyone 
who was lucky enough to attend.
  Mr. Butler certainly will be missed.


            Recognizing Rear Admiral Upper Half Randy Crites

  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Rear 
Admiral Lower Half Randy Crites for his promotion to Rear Admiral Upper 
Half. Rear Admiral Crites currently serves as commander of Submarine 
Group 10 at Kings Bay Naval Base in the extreme southern portion of the 
First Congressional District of Georgia.
  Since he signed up to serve in 1985, Rear Admiral Crites has proven 
himself as an outstanding leader. Among his many accomplishments, he 
completed four patrols while commanding the submarine USS West Virginia 
that dissuaded enemies from potentially threatening our country.
  It would be impossible for me to overstate the work that Rear Admiral 
Crites is doing at Kings Bay Naval Base, and I trust that he will 
succeed in his new assignment and make an even greater contribution to 
the safety of our Nation in his position. The First Congressional 
District of Georgia appreciates Rear Admiral Crites' patriotism and 
dedication to the United States.

                          ____________________



