

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 208 (Wednesday, December 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 208 (Wednesday, December 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S8180]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO CHARLES DALTON

 Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I am genuinely honored to recognize 
before the U.S. Senate and the Nation Charles Dalton of Greenville, SC, 
on the occasion of his retirement as chief executive officer and 
president of Blue Ridge Electric Cooperative and Blue Ridge Security 
Solutions.
  Born and raised on a farm in Pickens, SC, Charles from an early age 
developed a love for antique cars, Clemson football, and serving the 
Upstate of South Carolina. Charles cofounded and operated a furniture 
company in Pickens with his brother, Allison Dalton, before starting 
his career with Blue Ridge Electric Cooperative.
  Charles was elected chief executive in 1982 and has committed his 
time to serving the State of South Carolina by bringing power to 
remote, mountainous communities in five counties in the Upstate. His 
leadership over the last 36 years has helped the energy provider's 
membership to more than double, growing from 29,000 members to 
approximately 66,000. Charles has a reputation as a humble, accessible 
leader. In fact, he has been known to give out his home phone number to 
Blue Ridge members in an effort to provide constant service and 
maintain relationships in the communities in which he serves.
  In addition to contributing to the Upstate's growing economy during 
his tenure at Blue Ridge, Charles has also served in multiple 
capacities on nonprofit boards, including the Greenville chapter of the 
American Red Cross, Peace Center, and Cannon Memorial Hospital. He was 
selected to serve as a commissioner for the South Carolina Department 
of Transportation and cofounded the Upstate South Carolina Alliance, an 
organization committed to establishing the Upstate as a prominent 
economic region competing in the global economy. After his retirement, 
Charles and his wife, Libby, are looking forward to remaining engaged 
and active in the Upstate.
  Charles has received statewide recognition for his contributions to 
business, regional collaboration, and community service in South 
Carolina. In 1998, he was selected by Governor Beasley to serve as 
South Carolina's ``Ambassador for Economic Development.'' As a proud 
graduate of Clemson University, Charles was recognized with the 2014 
Distinguished Service Award by the Clemson Alumni Association for 
serving as an exceptional role model for present and future students. 
Last year, Charles was awarded the Spirit of the Upstate Award for 
consistently exhibiting exceptional leadership and dedicating his 
personal and professional life to strengthening the Upstate region in 
South Carolina. These accolades serve as a testament to the profound 
role Charles has played in improving the lives of South Carolinians in 
the Upstate, and I am confident that he will continue to do so in this 
next chapter of life.
  It is a distinct honor to recognize Charles Dalton on this important 
milestone. I ask that my colleagues join me in thanking Charles for the 
many contributions he has made over the course of his career, and I 
wish him all the best.

                          ____________________



