

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 159 (Wednesday, October 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 159 (Wednesday, October 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7754]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                 HAPPY BIRTHDAY, DR. VIRGINIA KIMBROUGH

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Barton). The Chair recognizes the 
gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. Butterfield) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize a great 
American, Dr. Virginia Kimbrough Newell, who will celebrate her 100th 
birthday on Saturday, October 7. Dr. Newell has spent her entire 
lifetime in service to others as a civil rights activist, elected 
official, mentor, and friend.
  Dr. Newell was born in Advance, North Carolina, to William and Dinah 
Kimbrough. She graduated from historic Atkins High School in Winston-
Salem and received a degree in mathematics from Talladega College in 
Talladega, Alabama. She received her master's degree from New York 
University and a doctorate in education from the University of Sarasota 
in Sarasota, Florida.
  After receiving her doctorate, Dr. Newell returned to her beloved 
North Carolina and taught mathematics at Washington High School and 
J.W. Ligon High School in Raleigh. Dr. Newell later joined the faculty 
at Shaw University in Raleigh as an associate professor of mathematics.
  In 1965, Mr. Speaker, Dr. Newell joined Winston-Salem State 
University as a mathematics professor. She taught at that institution 
for 20 long years and served as chair of the mathematics department. 
Acknowledging her tremendous contributions to the university, the 
computer science center bears her name.
  A dedicated public servant, Dr. Newell served as Winston-Salem city 
alderman for 16 years, where she focused on the needs of her 
constituents and advocated for those who were often without a voice. In 
recognition of her selfless advocacy, the city of Winston-Salem has 
named a street and walking trail in her honor.
  Virginia Kimbrough married George Fisher Newell, a distinguished 
science professor, a marriage that lasted 46 long years. Two daughters 
were born to the marriage, my friend, Dr. Glenda Newell-Harris, and Dr. 
Virginia D. Banks. She is blessed with six grandchildren: Brittany, 
Phillip, Mary, Matthew, Mark, and Todd.
  Dr. Newell is a member of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Incorporated, 
and is a platinum member of The Links, Incorporated. She is an Alpha 
Bette, which is a wife of an Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity man, and an 
Archousa, which is a wife of Sigma Pi Phi Fraternity. She has been a 
faithful member of First Baptist Church in Winston-Salem for more than 
50 years.
  Dr. Newell is, without a doubt, a visionary trailblazer who has 
positively impacted the lives of so many. On behalf of the United 
States House of Representatives and the people of my congressional 
district, I wish Dr. Virginia Kimbrough Newell a very happy 100th 
birthday.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentlewoman from North Carolina (Ms. 
Adams), who is from the 12th District of North Carolina.
  Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the phenomenal Dr. 
Virginia K. Newell, a mathematician, author, civil rights activist, 
teacher, elected official, mentor, and my Alpha Kappa Alpha soror.
  Dr. Newell is an asset to North Carolina. We celebrate her 100th 
birthday today and honor her legacy as a voice for the voiceless.
  A native of the triad, Dr. Newell graduated from Atkins High School 
in Winston-Salem before attending Talladega College in Alabama. She 
earned her master's degree from NYU and her doctorate of education from 
the University of Sarasota.
  As an educator, she touched the lives of countless students at 
Washington and Ligon High Schools in Raleigh, Yale Summer High School, 
Shaw University, and Winston-Salem State University. As chairwoman of 
the mathematics department at WSSU for 20 years and later as professor 
emeritus, Dr. Newell is credited with bringing computers to that 
campus.
  In Winston-Salem, Dr. Newell sought to make the greatest difference 
she could. She was elected as city alderwoman, serving for 16 years and 
always placing her constituents' needs first. She led numerous voter 
registration drives and co-chaired the Shirley Chisholm for President 
campaign in North Carolina. Even after retirement, Dr. Newell served as 
mentor and tutor to hundreds of students who continue to thank her for 
her firm approach and for expecting nothing but the best from them.
  Dr. Newell's hard work and dedication to her students, constituents, 
and North Carolina is admirable and noteworthy. Indeed, she is a 
phenomenal woman, and I wish her a very happy 100th birthday.

                          ____________________



