

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 194 (Wednesday, November 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 194 (Wednesday, November 29, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9471]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




      CONGRATULATIONS TO BUCKTAIL MEDICAL CENTER'S TIMOTHY REEVES

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
congratulate Bucktail Medical Center CEO Timothy Reeves for receiving a 
Community Star from the National Organization of State Offices of Rural 
Health.
  Community Stars recognize men and women nationwide who work to 
improve, protect, and advance health and wellness for those living in 
rural America.
  Timothy Reeves is the chief executive officer at Bucktail Medical 
Center, which is a critical access hospital, skilled nursing facility, 
community clinic, and BLS ambulance service in Renovo, Pennsylvania, in 
Clinton County. It is the only medical facility for more than 30 miles 
in any direction. Bucktail Medical Center is believed to be the most 
remote hospital in Pennsylvania.
  When Timothy came to Bucktail, the small hospital was on life 
support. The organization had significant financial issues, but it had 
a dedicated, strong-willed staff and supporting board. Through a 
carefully planned financial restructuring process, Timothy has helped 
bring the facility back to life. It is growing, modernizing, and 
acquiring the equipment, technology, and provisions needed to advance 
healthcare for the community.
  Mr. Speaker, thanks to Timothy and his team, Bucktail is looking 
towards the future, and the community is grateful for it.


                 Congratulating Dr. Lorraine Rosamilia

  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
congratulate a Centre County dermatologist for being named one of 
Pennsylvania's Top Physicians Under 40 by the Pennsylvania Medical 
Society. Dr. Lorraine Rosamilia, a native of Lock Haven, Pennsylvania, 
treats skin conditions and skin cancers in patients of all ages at 
Geisinger Health System in State College.
  In 2018, she will serve as the president of the Pennsylvania Academy 
of Dermatology and Dermatologic Surgery. She attended medical school 
and residency training in dermatology at Penn State's Milton S. Hershey 
Medical Center in Hershey, Pennsylvania.
  Geisinger Health System recently honored Dr. Rosamilia at its annual 
Top Patient Experience Clinicians Awards Dinner for ranking in the top 
10 percent in patient experience nationally.
  Dr. Rosamilia currently serves on the editorial and review boards of 
several medical journals. She is certified by the American Board of 
Dermatology. In addition to practicing, she teaches dermatology 
residents and primary care practitioners and delivers lectures on 
dermatology locally, nationally, and internationally.
  Mr. Speaker, I wholeheartedly congratulate Dr. Rosamilia on this 
outstanding achievement.

                          ____________________



