

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 207 (Tuesday, December 19, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H10240-H10242]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      HONORING HASKELL MONROE, JR.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Hollingsworth). Under the Speaker's 
announced policy of January 3, 2017, the gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
Flores) is recognized for 60 minutes as the designee of the majority 
leader.
  Mr. FLORES. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Dr. Haskell Monroe, 
Jr., of Bryan-College Station, Texas, who passed away on November 13, 
2017.
  Haskell Monroe, Jr., was born in Dallas, Texas, on March 18, 1931. He 
was the only child of Haskell Monroe, Sr., and Myrtle Monroe.
  The family of three lived in Garland, Texas, until Haskell, Jr., was 
ten, when they moved to Fort Smith, Arkansas, because of his father's 
job with the United States Department of War. They lived there for 2 
years before moving to Orange, Texas, where the family resided through 
Haskell's high school years.
  During his high school years, Haskell was an active member of the 
band, the track and field team, the football team, and he was a member 
of the Boy Scouts. His experience at schools in both Garland and Orange 
fostered a love of learning that lasted throughout his life.
  After graduating from high school in 1948, he went on to Austin 
College in Sherman, Texas, where he continued his involvement in track 
and field and football. He graduated from Austin College in 1952, with 
a bachelor's degree in both history and English.

  After graduation, he started graduate school at Austin College 
working to earn his master's in history. While working during his 
master's degree, Haskell began teaching at nearby Denison High School. 
He taught history at Denison and found his lifelong calling to be an 
educator while he was working there.
  In 1954, Haskell enlisted in the United States Navy. He served for 3 
years in the Navy, and while in the Navy, Haskell's passion for 
teaching never wavered, and he continued to teach while stationed in 
South Carolina. There, he taught English to visiting Japanese sailors 
and volunteered as an assistant coach for a local high school football 
team.
  Haskell completed his service and was discharged from the Navy in 
1956. Shortly thereafter, he met the love of his life, Margaret Joann 
Phillips, known as Jo. The two met while Haskell was working on 
historical research in North Carolina. On June 15, 1957, Jo and Haskell 
were married.
  In addition to 78 years of love and happiness, the marriage produced 
four children: Stephen, Melanie, Mark, and John; and eight 
grandchildren.
  The Monroes moved to Houston after their wedding in order for Haskell 
to pursue a Ph.D. in history at Rice University. They eventually moved 
to the Bryan-College Station area in 1959. One of his doctoral 
professors at Rice, Dr. Frank Vandiver, who would himself one day 
become the president at Texas A&M University, helped Haskell get his 
first job.

[[Page H10241]]

  With Dr. Vandiver's recommendation, Haskell became a professor of 
history at the Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas. This 
initial position was the beginning of a decades-long career both as a 
professor and as an administrator.
  One of his early contributions to Texas A&M was his appointment to 
the Texas A&M Aspirations Committee. This initiative was commissioned 
by then-President Earl Rudder to recommend changes to the university to 
put the institution on sound footing for the future.
  Among the recommendations to come out of this committee were the 
admission of female students, noncompulsory membership in the Corps of 
Cadets, racial integration, higher admission standards, and input that 
led to changing the name of the university to Texas A&M University.
  Haskell left Texas A&M, in 1980, to become president at the 
University of Texas-El Paso, commonly known as UTEP.
  After 7 years at UTEP, he became the chancellor at the University of 
Missouri, where he remained until 1993.
  Under his leadership, both schools reached new heights as academic 
institutions, enrolling record numbers of students, increasing minority 
student populations, and molding many National Merit Award scholars.
  In his down time, Haskell enjoyed collecting postcards from towns 
where he had lived and visited while traveling, especially the back 
roads of the United States and Mexico, and learning history through 
commemorative bricks, plaques, and roadside markers in historical 
places.
  He also shared his father's passion for woodworking and was known to 
create many pieces for his friends and his family.
  A member of the local community, Haskell was a member of the Rotary 
Club and served on boards of the United Way, Salvation Army, and Boy 
Scouts. He was also a lifelong member of the Presbyterian church, where 
he also served as an elder and an ordained deacon.
  Mr. Speaker, Haskell Monroe worked tirelessly to teach young people 
and to give back to his community. He is loved by our Bryan-College 
Station community, and he left an enduring impression on the entire 
State of Texas. He will be forever remembered as a great educator, 
colleague, philanthropist, community leader, husband, father, 
grandfather, and friend.
  My wife, Gina, and I offer our deepest and heartfelt condolences to 
the Monroe family. We also lift up the family and friends of Dr. Monroe 
in our prayers.
  I have requested that a United States flag be flown over the Capitol 
to honor the life and legacy of Dr. Haskell Monroe, Jr.
  As I close today, I urge all Americans to continue praying for our 
country during these difficult times, for our military men and women 
who protect us from external threats, and for our first responders who 
protect us here at home.


                   Honoring Robert ``Popeye'' Carter

  Mr. FLORES. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor retired Staff Sergeant 
Robert Carter of Waco, Texas, better known as Popeye to his friends. He 
passed away on November 26, 2017.
  Popeye was born in 1953 and grew up in the Waco area. In 1972, he 
graduated from Richfield High School. After graduation, he married his 
high school sweetheart, Geni Kay Reeves. Popeye also heard the call to 
serve his country and enlisted in the United States Army in 1972.
  He was stationed in Frankfurt, Germany, where he patrolled the Czech 
border during the Cold War. He served on Active Duty from 1972 to 1975.
  After his Active-Duty service was up, Popeye served in the Army 
Reserves from 1975 to 1995, and all his career in the Army spanned 23 
years.
  In November 1990, Popeye was called into Active Duty with his reserve 
unit. The unit shipped off to fight in the Gulf war. His unit was 
placed on the front lines, incurring heavy artillery fire throughout 
their time in the Gulf.
  He returned to the United States, where he soon found out that he was 
suffering from what became known as Gulf War Syndrome. The aftermath of 
the war affected Popeye for the rest of his life.
  After Popeye's service, he came back home to Waco and served as a 
mechanic for 30 years. Always wanting to give back, he began 
volunteering to help local veterans at the Veterans One-stop, which 
offers support services to veterans to help them reintegrate into 
society and provide them with an outlet to meet other veterans in the 
area. He was known as someone who would help anyone in need, often 
anonymously.

  A man of great faith, Popeye believed strongly in God and used his 
faith to carry him through life. He openly shared his faith with others 
and believed in helping those in spiritual need just as much as those 
with physical wounds.
  After the passing of his first wife, he married and enjoyed a new 
beginning with his wife, Roxanne Carter. Together, their family had a 
son and three daughters, as well as ten grandchildren, all of whom 
Popeye loved dearly.
  In 2013, Popeye was nominated by the members of our community for the 
Texas 17th Congressional District Veteran Commendation award. It was an 
honor to bestow this unique award that recognized his selfless service 
to both our Nation and to our central Texas community.
  In his free time, Popeye enjoyed the outdoors, and he loved to fish. 
He was also an avid motorcyclist and was routinely seen riding his 
Harley Davidson with friends.
  A dedicated family man, Popeye loved to spend time with his family 
and looked forward to dinners every Monday night, where his immediate 
family would gather to enjoy food and fellowship.
  Mr. Speaker, selfless service to all those around him defined Popeye 
Carter's life. He worked tirelessly to defend our freedom and to better 
our Waco community. He is loved by his city, and he certainly left an 
enduring impression on all of central Texas.
  He will be forever remembered as a selfless soldier, a 
philanthropist, a community member, a husband, a father, a grandfather, 
and a friend.
  My wife, Gina, and I offer our deepest and heartfelt condolences to 
the Carter family. We also lift up the family and friends of Popeye 
Carter in our prayers.
  I have requested the United States flag be flown over the Capitol to 
honor the life and legacy of Robert ``Popeye'' Carter.
  As I close today, I urge all Americans to continue praying for our 
country during these difficult times, for our military men and women 
who protect us from threats abroad, and for our first responders who 
protect us here at home.


                    Honoring Calvin ``Ryan'' Coffer

  Mr. FLORES. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor U.S. Marine Corps 
Staff Sergeant Calvin ``Ryan'' Coffer of Bryan, Texas, who passed away 
on October 24, 2017.
  Ryan Coffer was born on September 22, 1983. From a young age, he was 
involved in the Boy Scouts and achieved the highest rank of Eagle 
Scout.
  True to his Texas roots, he enjoyed hunting, fishing, and loved 
watching football, especially the Dallas Cowboys and the fighting Texas 
Aggies, especially with his grandmother, Mimi.

                              {time}  1845

  Growing up, Ryan spent many days working alongside his father in a 
local theater company, a small performance theater in Brazos Valley.
  True to his nature, Ryan put duty before himself. He felt a call, and 
he answered it by serving his country in the United States Marine 
Corps. He enlisted as an infantryman. Ryan was assigned to the 2nd 
Battalion, 4th Marines and, later, to the 5th Headquarters Company 
based in Camp Pendleton, California. During his service, he deployed 
three times, once to Japan and twice to Iraq.
  Ryan was a well-decorated Marine and rose to the rank of staff 
sergeant. His awards include the Marine Corps Achievement Medal with 
Valor, the Combat Action Ribbon, the Good Conduct Medal, the National 
Defense Service Medal, the Iraq Campaign Medal with Gold Star, and the 
Global War on Terrorism Service Medal.
  Part of his duties included being a zodiak fast assault specialist, a 
squad leader, and a marksman instructor. On his second deployment to 
Iraq, he was tasked with providing security to General David Petraeus.
  Ryan embodied the core values of being a United States Marine, and he

[[Page H10242]]

felt that his true mission was to make sure his squad made it home 
safely.
  After leaving the Marine Corps, Ryan set a goal to attend college at 
Texas A&M University. He was accepted into Texas A&M, and he planned to 
attend the university after holding out one semester to work and to 
save money for school. Ryan embodied the core values of Texas A&M 
through his spirit of selfless service, leadership, loyalty, and 
integrity.
  Unfortunately, the toll of his military service manifested itself in 
the form of PTSD, which, unfortunately, went undiagnosed. As the long-
term effects of war began to grow within him, he ultimately became 
another victim of PTSD, and his life ended far too early.
  Mr. Speaker, Sergeant Coffer worked tirelessly to serve our country 
as well as family and friends. He is loved by our Bryan-College Station 
community, and he left an enduring impression on the Brazos Valley. 
Ryan will be forever remembered as a courageous Marine, leader, loving 
son, community member, and friend.
  My wife, Gina, and I lift up our deepest and heartfelt condolences to 
the Coffer family. We also lift up Ryan's family and friends in our 
prayers.
  I have requested the United States flag be flown over the Capitol to 
honor the life and legacy of Ryan Coffer.
  As I close today, I ask all Americans to continue to pray for our 
country during these difficult times, for our military men and women 
who protect us from threats overseas, and for our first responders who 
protect us here at home.


                 Honoring Lieutenant Colonel Bob Ammon

  Mr. FLORES. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor retired Lieutenant 
Colonel Bob Ammon of Waco, Texas, who passed away on September 28, 
2017.
  Bob was born in West Reading, Pennsylvania, on February 28, 1924. He 
would spend his early years in West Reading, growing up in what he 
described as an ``average American home.'' He grew up with an older 
brother, Jim, and a younger sister, Marjorie.
  In 1941, Bob was a senior in high school when the Japanese struck 
Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941. Not being old enough for the draft, 
Bob was still determined to serve his country and contribute to the war 
effort. In 1942, he decided to take the aviation exam to become a pilot 
in the United States Army. He passed the exam and, on August 25, 1942, 
he was sworn into the Army.
  He was called into Active Duty in 1943, beginning flight training in 
Santa Ana, California, and completing his training at Fort Sumner, New 
Mexico.
  After graduating from flight school, Bob was assigned to Mather Air 
Force Base to begin training as a B-25 bomber pilot. In 1944, he began 
bombing runs with the 11th Bomb Squadron, who were fighting to 
dismantle the Japanese occupation of China. He flew 21 bombing missions 
in China and participated in combat during the Battle of Hanoi Harbor.
  After his service in World War II, Bob reenlisted during the Korean 
war. In Korea, he flew an astounding 43 bombing missions and earned a 
Purple Heart for wounds that he suffered after being shot down over 
North Korea.
  Bob again reenlisted to serve when the Vietnam war broke out. He 
never missed combat in any of the wars he fought in, and he was proud 
of his military service until the day he passed.
  While stationed at James Connolly Air Force Base, Bob met a beautiful 
woman named Ann at the Officers' Club, and they married in 1952. They 
enjoyed 64 years of marriage together and raised three sons--Steve, 
Bob, and Jeff--all of whom graduated from Baylor University in Waco.
  Though he was often traveling, Bob made a point to be there for his 
sons and to make sure they were being raised well. He was known as a 
loving father who raised his sons with a steady hand, and he passed on 
his love of flying, golf, and family to his three sons. Today, his 
legacy includes 25 family members, including grandchildren and great-
grandchildren.
  Bob was a patriotic man and always flew the American flag outside his 
home in Waco. He always made a point to stand for the Pledge of 
Allegiance and the national anthem, even as his health began to fail 
him late in life.
  Bob was known for giving back to the local community, and he had a 
strong faith in God. Bob served in a position of leadership at the 
Covenant Church for 27 years. He was well-known for greeting 
parishioners with a smile at the doors of the church. His friendly and 
welcoming manner will surely be missed at Covenant Church.
  Mr. Speaker, Bob worked tirelessly to protect our country, to raise a 
strong family, and to serve our Waco community. He is loved by his 
friends and family, and he left an enduring impression on all of 
central Texas. He will be forever remembered as an American hero, a 
great community member, a husband, a father, a grandfather, a great-
grandfather, and a friend.
  My wife, Gina, and I offer our deepest and heartfelt condolences to 
the Ammon family. We also lift up the family and friends of Bob in our 
prayers.
  I have requested that a United States flag be flown over the Capitol 
to honor the life and legacy of Lieutenant Colonel Bob Ammon.
  As I close today, I urge all Americans to continue praying for our 
country during these difficult times, for our military men and women 
who protect us abroad, and for our first responders who protect us from 
threats here at home.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



