

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 185 (Monday, November 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 185 (Monday, November 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9178]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. FERGUSON (for himself, Mr. Mitchell, and Mr. 
             Garrett):
       H.R. 4372. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to require borrowers to repay Federal student loans under an 
     income-based repayment plan or a standard repayments plan, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself and Mr. 
             Gonzalez of Texas):
       H.R. 4373. A bill to modernize and strengthen the United 
     States anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing 
     regime; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. WALDEN:
       H.R. 4374. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to authorize additional emergency uses for 
     medical products to reduce deaths and severity of injuries 
     caused by agents of war, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mrs. COMSTOCK (for herself, Ms. Eddie Bernice 
             Johnson of Texas, Mr. Smith of Texas, and Mr. 
             Knight):
       H.R. 4375. A bill to provide for a study on broadening 
     participation in certain National Science Foundation research 
     and education programs, to collect data on Federal research 
     grants to science agencies, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. KNIGHT (for himself, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Smith of 
             Texas, Mr. Weber of Texas, and Mr. Hultgren):
       H.R. 4376. A bill to direct the Secretary of Energy to 
     carry out certain upgrades to research equipment and the 
     construction of a research user facility, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. HULTGREN (for himself, Mr. Foster, Mr. Smith of 
             Texas, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Weber of Texas, and Mr. 
             Knight):
       H.R. 4377. A bill to direct the Secretary of Energy to 
     carry out an upgrade to research equipment and construct 
     research user facilities, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. WEBER of Texas (for himself, Ms. Eddie Bernice 
             Johnson of Texas, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Lipinski, 
             Mr. Knight, and Mr. Hultgren):
       H.R. 4378. A bill to direct the Secretary of Energy to 
     carry out the construction of a versatile reactor-based fast 
     neutron source, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mrs. BUSTOS (for herself, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. 
             Evans, Ms. Norton, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, and Mr. 
             Khanna):
       H.R. 4379. A bill to ensure that significantly more 
     students graduate college with the international knowledge 
     and experience essential for success in today's global 
     economy through the establishment of the Senator Paul Simon 
     Study Abroad Program in the Department of Education; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. KIND (for himself and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 4380. A bill to make certain improvements relating to 
     the hiring and employment of members of the Armed Forces, 
     veterans, and their spouses, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Armed Services, and Veterans' Affairs, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LYNCH:
       H.R. 4381. A bill to require certain holders of a 
     certificate of public convenience and necessity issued under 
     the Natural Gas Act to suspend activities authorized by the 
     certificate until violations relating to air quality are 
     remediated, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. GRAVES of Georgia (for himself, Mrs. McMorris 
             Rodgers, Mr. Russell, and Mr. Cuellar):
       H. Con. Res. 92. Concurrent resolution recognizing the deep 
     and abiding friendship between the United States and Israel; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. PITTENGER (for himself, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. 
             Aderholt, Mr. Walberg, Mr. Jones, Mr. Flores, Mr. 
             Hudson, Mr. Harper, Mr. Poliquin, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. 
             Johnson of Louisiana, and Mr. Lamborn):
       H. Con. Res. 93. Concurrent resolution recognizing the 
     opening of the Museum of the Bible in Washington, D.C., the 
     only museum of its size and scope in the world devoted 
     exclusively to the Bible; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Ms. SPEIER (for herself and Ms. Wilson of Florida):
       H. Res. 615. A resolution designating the Democratic 
     Cloakroom in the Hall of the House of Representatives as the 
     ``Gabrielle Giffords-Leo J. Ryan Cloakroom``; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in 
     addition to the Committees on House Administration, and 
     Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. EMMER:
       H. Res. 617. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of the third Thursday of November as ``World Wide 
     Pressure Injury Prevention Day''; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. WENSTRUP (for himself and Mr. Ryan of Ohio):
       H. Res. 618. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of the third Wednesday of November as ``Utility 
     Scam Awareness Day''; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.

                          ____________________



