

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7209-S7211]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION

  Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control 
Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain 
proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification, 
the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be 
reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the 
notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
  In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant 
information is available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous consent to 
have printed in the Record the notifications which have been received. 
If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is 
available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations 
Committee, room SD-423.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:


[[Page S7210]]


                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 17-67, 
     concerning the Army's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and 
     Acceptance to the Government of Poland for defense articles 
     and services estimated to cost $10.5 billion. After this 
     letter is delivered to your office, we plan to issue a news 
     release to notify the public of this proposed sale.
           Sincerely,
                                                Charles W. Hooper,
                                 Lieutenant General, USA Director.
       Enclosures.


                         Transmittal No. 17-67

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Poland
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment * $ 6.8 billion.
       Other $ 3.7 billion.
       Total $10.5 billion.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase: This is phase one 
     of a two-phase program for an Integrated Air and Missile 
     Defense (IAMD) Battle Command System (IBCS)--enabled Patriot 
     Configuration-3+ with Modernized Sensors and Components 
     consisting of:
       Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
       Four (4) AN/MPQ-65 Radar Sets.
       Four (4) Engagement Control Stations.
       Four (4) Radar Interface Units (RIU) Modification Kits.
       Sixteen (16) M903 Launching Stations adapted.
       Eighteen (18) Launcher Integrated Network Kits (LINKS) 
     (includes two (2) spares).
       Two hundred and eight (208) Patriot Advanced Capability-3 
     (PAC-3) Missile Segment Enhancement (MSE) Missiles.
       Eleven (11) PAC-3 MSE Test Missiles.
       IBCS Software.
       Six (6) Current Operations--IBCS Engagement Operations 
     Centers (EOCs).
       Six (6) Engagement Operations--IBCS EOCs.
       Two (2) Future Operations--IBCS EOCs.
       Fifteen (15) Integrated Fire Control Network (IFCN) Relays.
       Four (4) Electrical Power Plants (EPP) III.
       Five (5) Multifunctional Information Distribution Systems/
     Low Volume Terminals (MIDS/LVTs).
       Non-MDE includes: Also included with this request are 
     communications equipment, tools and test equipment, range and 
     test programs, support equipment, prime movers, generators, 
     publications and technical documentation, training equipment, 
     spare and repair parts, personnel training, Technical 
     Assistance Field Team (TAFT), U.S. Government and contractor 
     technical, engineering, and logistics support services, 
     Systems Integration and Checkout (SICO), field office 
     support, and other related elements of logistics and program 
     support.
       (iv) Military Department: Army.
       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc. Paid, Offered, or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached 
     Annex.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: November 14, 
     2017.
       *As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          POLICY JUSTIFICATION

Poland--Integrated Air and Missile Defense (IAMD) Battle Command System 
 (IBCS)--enabled Patriot Configuration-3+ with Modernized Sensors and 
                               Components

       The Government of Poland has requested to purchase phase 
     one of a two-phase program for an Integrated Air and Missile 
     Defense (IAMD) Battle Command System (IBCS) enabled Patriot 
     Configuration-3+ with Modernized Sensors and Components 
     consisting of four (4) AN/MPQ-65 radar sets, four (4) 
     engagement control stations, four (4) Radar Interface Units 
     (RIU) modification kits, sixteen (16) M903 Launching stations 
     adapted, eighteen (18) Launcher Integrated Network Kits 
     (LINKs) (includes two (2) spares), two hundred and eight 
     (208) Patriot Advanced Capabilty-3 (PAC-3) Missile Segment 
     Enhancement (MSE) missiles, eleven (11) PAC-3 MSE test 
     missiles, IBCS software, two (2) future operations--IBCS 
     Engagement Operations Centers (EOCs), six (6) current 
     operations-IBCS EOCs, six (6) engagement operations-IBCS 
     EOCs, fifteen (15) Integrated Fire Control Network (IFCN 
     relays, four (4) Electrical Power Plants (EPP) III, and five 
     (5) Multifunctional Information Distribution Systems/Low 
     Volume Terminals (MIDS/LVTs). Also included with this request 
     are communications equipment, tools and test equipment, range 
     and test programs, support equipment, prime movers, 
     generators, publications and technical documentation, 
     training equipment, spare and repair parts, personnel 
     training, Technical Assistance Field Team (TAFT), U.S. 
     Government and contractor technical, engineering, and 
     logistics support services, Systems Integration and Checkout 
     (SICO), field office support, and other related elements of 
     logistics and program support. The total estimated program 
     cost is $10.5. billion.
       This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and 
     national security objectives of the United States by helping 
     to improve the security of a NATO ally which has been, and 
     continues to be an important force for political stability 
     and economic progress in Europe. This sale is consistent with 
     U.S. initiatives to provide key allies in the region with 
     modern systems that will enhance interoperability with U.S. 
     forces and increase security.
       Poland will use the IBCS-enabled Patriot missile system to 
     improve its missile defense capability, defend its 
     territorial integrity, and deter regional threats. The 
     proposed sale will increase the defensive capabilities of the 
     Polish Military to guard against hostile aggression and 
     shield the NATO allies who often train and operate within 
     Poland's borders. Poland will have no difficulty absorbing 
     this system into its armed forces.
       The proposed sale of these missiles and equipment will not 
     alter the basic military balance in the region.
       The prime contractors will be Raytheon Corporation in 
     Andover, Massachusetts, Lockheed-Martin in Dallas, Texas, and 
     Northrop Grumman in Falls Church, Virginia. The purchaser 
     requested offsets. At this time, offset agreements are 
     undetermined and will be defined in negotiations between the 
     purchaser and contractors.
       Implementation of this proposed sale will require 
     approximately 42 U.S. Government and 55 contractor 
     representatives to travel to Poland for an extended period 
     for equipment deprocessing/fielding, system checkout, 
     training, and technical and logistics support.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale.


                         Transmittal No. 17-67

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act

                           Annex Item No. vii

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
       1. The Patriot Air Defense System contains classified 
     CONFIDENTIAL hardware components, SECRET tactical software 
     and CRITICAL/SENSITIVE technology. Patriot ground support 
     equipment and Patriot missile hardware contain CONFIDENTIAL 
     components and the associated launcher hardware is 
     UNCLASSIFIED. Information on system performance capabilities, 
     effectiveness, survivability, missile seeker capabilities, 
     select software/software documentation and test data are 
     classified up to and including SECRET. The items requested 
     represent significant technological advances for Poland. The 
     Patriot Air Defense System continues to hold a significant 
     technology lead over other surface-to-air missile systems in 
     the world.
       2. The Patriot Air Defense System's sensitive/critical 
     technology is primarily in the area of design and production 
     know-how and primarily inherent in the design, development 
     and/or manufacturing data related to certain components. The 
     list of components is classified CONFIDENTIAL. For more 
     information contact the PEO Missiles and Space Lower Tier 
     Project Office.
       3. The Integrated Air and Missile Defense (IAMD) Battle 
     Command System (IBCS) contains classified SECRET tactical 
     software, UNCLASSIFIED hardware components, a few classified 
     SECRET hardware components and CRITICAL/SENSITIVE technology. 
     Information on Integrated Fire Control (IFC) Network 
     performance, Integrated System Requirements and 
     Effectiveness, Common Command and Control Requirements and 
     Performance, Precision of sensor, shelter, launcher, and Plug 
     & Fight module time references, Detailed security device 
     configurations, Cyber Security details, Distributed Track 
     Management Processing, Distributed Control Management 
     Processing, External Interface Data, IBCS Specifications, 
     Critical Elements, Vulnerabilities and Weaknesses, and Test 
     Data, Results, and Equipment are classified up to and 
     including SECRET. The items requested represent significant 
     technological advances for Poland Air and Missile Defense. 
     The IBCS represents a technology lead over any other Air and 
     Missile Defense (AMD) Command and Control (C2) system 
     existing today.
       4. The IBCS sensitive/critical technology is primarily in 
     software. And also resides in the design, developments, and 
     manufacturing of certain components. The list of components 
     containing sensitive/critical technology is classified 
     SECRET.
       5. The loss of this hardware, software, documentation and/
     or data could permit development of information which may 
     lead to a significant threat to future U.S. military 
     operations. If an adversary were to obtain this sensitive 
     technology, the missile system effectiveness could be 
     compromised through reverse engineering techniques.
       6. A determination has been made that Poland can provide 
     substantially the same degree of protection for the sensitive 
     technology being released as the U.S. Government. This 
     proposed sale is necessary in furtherance of the U.S. foreign 
     policy and national security objectives outlined in the 
     Policy Justification.
       7. All defense articles and services listed in this 
     transmittal have been authorized for release and export to 
     the Government of Poland.

[[Page S7211]]

     
                                  ____
                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 17-51, 
     concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and 
     Acceptance to the Government of Norway for defense articles 
     and services estimated to cost $170 million. After this 
     letter is delivered to your office, we plan to issue a news 
     release to notify the public of this proposed sale.
           Sincerely,
                                                Charles W. Hooper,
                                Lieutenant General, USA, Director.
       Enclosures.


                         Transmittal No. 17-51

  Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to Section 
          36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as amended

       (i) Prospective Purchaser: The Government of Norway.
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment* $150 million.
       Other $20 million.
       Total $170 million.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase:
       Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
       Sixty (60) AIM-120 C-7 Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air 
     Missiles (AMRAAM).
       Four (4) AMRAAM Guidance Section Spares.
       Non-MDE: Missile containers, weapon system support, support 
     equipment, spare and repair parts, publications and technical 
     documentation, personnel training, training equipment, U.S. 
     Government and contractor engineering, logistics, technical 
     and support services, and other related elements of logistics 
     and program support.
       (iv) Military Department: Air Force (X6-D-YAE).
       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: NO-D-YME.
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached 
     Annex.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: November 14, 
     2017.
       *As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          POLICY JUSTIFICATION

 Norway--AIM-120 C-7 Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missile (AMRAAM)

       The Government of Norway requested a possible sale of sixty 
     (60) AIM-120 C-7 Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missiles 
     (AMRAAM) and four (4) AMRAAM guidance section spares. Also 
     included are missile containers, weapon system support, 
     support equipment, spare and repair parts, publications and 
     technical documentation, personnel training, training 
     equipment, U.S. Government and contractor engineering, 
     logistics, technical and support services, and other related 
     elements of logistics and program support. The estimated 
     total case value is $170 million.
       This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and 
     national security objectives of the United States by 
     improving the security of a NATO ally which continues to be 
     an important force for political stability and economic 
     progress in Europe.
       The proposed sale will improve Norway's capabilities for 
     mutual defense, regional security, force modernization, and 
     U.S. and NATO interoperability. This sale will enhance the 
     Royal Norwegian Air Force's ability to defend Norway against 
     future threats and contribute to current and future NATO 
     operations. This is a follow-on buy of additional AIM-120 C-7 
     missiles. Norway will be able to absorb these additional 
     missiles and support into its armed forces.
       The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not 
     alter the basic military balance in the region.
       The prime contractor will be Raytheon Missile Systems, 
     Tucson, AZ. There are no known offset agreements proposed in 
     connection with this potential sale.
       Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the 
     assignment of any additional U.S. Government personnel or 
     contractor representatives to Norway.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale.


                         Transmittal No. 17-51

  Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to Section 
                36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act

                           Annex Item No. vii

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
       1. AIM-120 C-7 Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missile 
     (AMRAAM) is a radar guided missile featuring digital 
     technology and micro-miniature solid-state electronics. 
     AMRAAM capabilities include look-down/shoot-down, multiple 
     launches against multiple targets, resistance to electronic 
     counter measures, and interception of high flying, low flying 
     and maneuvering targets. The AMRAAM is classified 
     CONFIDENTIAL, major components and subsystems range from 
     UNCLASSIFIED to CONFIDENTIAL, and technology data and other 
     documentation are classified up to SECRET.
       2. If a technologically advanced adversary obtains 
     knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the 
     information could be used to develop countermeasures or 
     equivalent systems that might reduce weapon system 
     effectiveness or be used in the development of a system with 
     similar or advanced capabilities.
       3. A determination has been made that Norway can provide 
     substantially the same degree of protection for the sensitive 
     technology being released as the U.S. Government. This 
     proposed sale is necessary to the furtherance of the U.S. 
     foreign policy and national security objectives outlined in 
     the policy justification.
       4. All defense articles and services listed in this 
     transmittal are authorized for release and export to the 
     Government of Norway.

                          ____________________



