

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 151 (Tuesday, September 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 151 (Tuesday, September 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S5860-S5862]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 109

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 109, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for coverage under 
the Medicare program of pharmacist services.


                                 S. 188

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Louisiana

[[Page S5861]]

(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 188, a bill to prohibit 
the use of Federal funds for the costs of painting portraits of 
officers and employees of the Federal Government.


                                 S. 198

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 198, a bill to require 
continued and enhanced annual reporting to Congress in the Annual 
Report on International Religious Freedom on anti-Semitic incidents in 
Europe, the safety and security of European Jewish communities, and the 
efforts of the United States to partner with European governments, the 
European Union, and civil society groups, to combat anti-Semitism, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 206

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 206, a bill to amend the 
Higher Education Act of 1965 to allow the Secretary of Education to 
award job training Federal Pell Grants.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 322, a bill to protect 
victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating 
violence from emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts of 
violence or threats of violence against their pets.


                                 S. 360

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 360, a bill 
to amend the Help America Vote Act of 2002 to require States to provide 
for same day registration.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to amend 
the Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving through the 
mail shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border Protection 
and to require the provision of advance electronic information on 
shipments of mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 431

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 431, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to expand the use of telehealth 
for individuals with stroke.


                                 S. 459

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 459, a bill to designate 
the area between the intersections of Wisconsin Avenue, Northwest and 
Davis Street, Northwest and Wisconsin Avenue, Northwest and Edmunds 
Street, Northwest in Washington, District of Columbia, as ``Boris 
Nemtsov Plaza'', and for other purposes.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the names of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly), the Senator from Maine (Mr. King) and the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) were added as cosponsors of S. 479, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under 
Medicare for colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether 
therapeutic intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the names of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 497, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage of certain 
lymphedema compression treatment items as items of durable medical 
equipment.


                                 S. 619

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 619, a bill to amend the Public 
Health Service Act to provide for the participation of physical 
therapists in the National Health Service Corps Loan Repayment Program, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 642

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 642, a bill to restore the 
integrity of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United 
States, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 660

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 660, a bill to amend the 
Higher Education Act of 1965 in order to fulfill the Federal mandate to 
provide higher educational opportunities for Native American Indians.


                                 S. 678

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 678, a bill to delcare 
English as the official language of the United States, to establish a 
uniform English language rule for naturalization, and to avoid 
misconstructions of the English language texts of the laws of the 
United States, pursuant to Congress' powers to provide for the general 
welfare of the United States and to establish a uniform rule of 
naturalization under article I, section 8, of the Constitution.


                                 S. 693

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) and the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Crapo) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 693, a bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
increase the number of permanent faculty in palliative care at 
accredited allopathic and osteopathic medical schools, nursing schools, 
social work schools, and other programs, including physician assistant 
education programs, to promote education and research in palliative 
care and hospice, and to support the development of faculty careers in 
academic palliative medicine.


                                 S. 777

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 777, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow deductions and credits relating 
to expenditures in connection with marijuana sales conducted in 
compliance with State law.


                                 S. 819

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Mr. Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 819, a bill to amend the 
Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to provide more effective remedies to 
victims of discrimination in the payment of wages on the basis of sex, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 830

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr) was added as a cosponsor of S. 830, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for the coordination 
of programs to prevent and treat obesity, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 948

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 948, a bill to designate 
as wilderness certain Federal portions of the red rock canyons of the 
Colorado Plateau and the Great Basin Deserts in the State of Utah for 
the benefit of present and future generations of people in the United 
States.


                                S. 1004

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1004, a bill to amend the 
Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 to support 
innovative approaches to career and technical education and redesign 
the high school experience for students by providing students with 
equitable access to rigorous, engaging, and relevant real world 
education through partnerships with business and industry and higher 
education that prepare students to graduate from high school and enroll 
into postsecondary education without the need for remediation and with 
the ability to use knowledge to solve complex problems, think 
critically, communicate effectively, collaborate with others, and 
develop academic mindsets.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a

[[Page S5862]]

cosponsor of S. 1050, a bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal, 
collectively, to the Chinese-American Veterans of World War II, in 
recognition of their dedicated service during World War II.


                                S. 1132

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1132, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to make permanent the 
removal of the rental cap for durable medical equipment under the 
Medicare program with respect to speech generating devices.


                                S. 1256

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1256, a bill to award a 
Congressional Gold Medal to the 23d Headquarters, Special Troops and 
the 3133d Signal Service Company in recognition of their unique and 
distinguished service as a ``Ghost Army'' that conducted deception 
operations in Europe during World War II.


                                S. 1310

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1310, a bill to amend the 
Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 to specify which depository 
institutions are subject to the maintenance of records and disclosure 
requirements of such Act, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1361

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1361, a bill to amend title XVIII 
of the Social Security Act to allow physician assistants, nurse 
practitioners, and clinical nurse specialists to supervise cardiac, 
intensive cardiac, and pulmonary rehabilitation programs.


                                S. 1590

  At the request of Mr. Sanders, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1590, a bill to provide 
for youth jobs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1595

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds), the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Moran), the Senator 
from Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) and the Senator from Colorado (Mr. 
Gardner) were added as cosponsors of S. 1595, a bill to amend the 
Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015 to impose 
additional sanctions with respect to Hizballah, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1686

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1686, a bill to amend the 
Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act to provide for 
management of red snapper in the Gulf of Mexico, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1693

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) and the Senator from Nebraska (Mrs. Fischer) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1693, a bill to amend the Communications Act of 
1934 to clarify that section 230 of that Act does not prohibit the 
enforcement against providers and users of interactive computer 
services of Federal and State criminal and civil law relating to sex 
trafficking.


                                S. 1764

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1764, a bill to extend the 
principle of federalism to State drug policy, provide access to medical 
marijuana, and enable research into the medicinal properties of 
marijuana.


                                S. 1766

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Portman) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1766, a bill to reauthorize the SAFER Act of 2013, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1783

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1783, a bill to amend the 
National Voter Registration Act of 1993 to require each State to 
implement a process under which individuals who are 16 years of age may 
apply to register to vote in elections for Federal office in the State, 
to direct the Election Assistance Commission to make grants to States 
to increase the involvement of minors in public election activities, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1791

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1791, a bill to amend the 
Act of August 25, 1958, commonly known as the ``Former Presidents Act 
of 1958'', with respect to the monetary allowance payable to a former 
President, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1808

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1808, a bill to extend temporarily the 
Federal Perkins Loan program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1827

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1827, a bill to extend 
funding for the Children's Health Insurance Program, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1828

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1828, a bill to change the date for regularly 
scheduled general elections for Federal office to the first Saturday 
and Sunday after the first Friday in November in every even-numbered 
year.


                              S. RES. 139

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin), the Senator from Missouri (Mr. Blunt), the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein), the Senator from Arizona (Mr. McCain), the 
Senator from Ohio (Mr. Portman), the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. 
Warren) and the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) were added 
as cosponsors of S. Res. 139, a resolution condemning the Government of 
Iran's state-sponsored persecution of its Baha'i minority and its 
continued violation of the International Covenants on Human Rights.


                              S. RES. 250

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the names of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin), the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden) and the Senator from 
Oregon (Mr. Merkley) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 250, a 
resolution condemning horrific acts of violence against Burma's 
Rohingya population and calling on Aung San Suu Kyi to play an active 
role in ending this humanitarian tragedy.

                          ____________________



