

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 186 (Tuesday, November 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7211-S7212]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 RECOGNIZING MAINE'S CONTINUUM OF CARE

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, Maine is home to strong communities and 
compassionate citizens. Nowhere are those qualities more evident than 
in our State's commitment to end the scourge of homelessness.
  This effort has taken a significant step forward through the 
establishment of a single continuum of care for the State of Maine. The 
merger of the Portland Continuum of Care and the Maine Balance of State 
Continuum of Care will better enable local service providers, the 
statewide homeless council, and State and Federal agencies to address 
homelessness throughout Maine while accommodating specific local needs. 
This consolidation began in 2012 with the merger of the Bangor/Greater 
Penobscot Continuum with the Maine Balance of State Continuum of Care. 
I particularly commend the Maine State Housing Authority for its 
leadership during this process.
  Maine's unified continuum of care will create greater efficiencies in 
the use of Federal funding under the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance 
Act of 1987, the first major national response to homelessness. As 
chairman of the Housing Appropriations Subcommittee, I am confident 
that this unification will enhance the ability of Maine's service 
providers to help guide Federal policies and programs that assist low-
income Americans, families with children, young people, seniors, and 
our veterans in obtaining safe shelter and affordable housing.
  With a 9-percent reduction in homelessness from fiscal year 2016 to 
2017, Maine is making great progress in aiding our most vulnerable 
citizens. The creation of a unified continuum of care will accelerate 
this progress, and I congratulate all who made it possible.
  Mr. KING. Mr. President, I would like to recognize the efforts of the 
many organizations that have agreed to come together to establish a 
single continuum of care for the State of Maine. Continuums of Care are 
supported by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to 
promote a communitywide commitment to the goal of ending homelessness. 
They are a vital partner in the works to quickly rehouse homeless 
individuals and families to minimize trauma and dislocation; promote 
access to and effective use of mainstream programs; and optimize self-
sufficiency among individuals and families experiencing homelessness. 
Continuums of Care make important decisions about priorities for 
Federal funding of programs that provide significant services.
  Prior to establishing this single continuum of care for Maine, there 
were three separate entities that existed: the City of Portland, 
Greater Penobscot, which was centered on Bangor, and everything else 
fell under the ``Balance of State'' Continuum. While receiving funding 
to operate a continuum of care funding requires a competitive 
application process, these three groups have consistently worked 
closely together and coordinated their means. In 2012, the Greater 
Penobscot Continuum and ``Balance of State'' merged together to create 
the Maine Continuum of Care. Then, in 2017, the Portland Continuum 
consolidated with the Maine Continuum--achieving a single continuum of 
care--an effort that greatly advanced the level of collaboration among 
the member agencies and has proven to be an important step in 
streamlining efforts and assuring available resources are meeting the 
needs of those who become homeless. The merger of the two continuums 
has resulted in more accurate collection and management of data about 
the extent and characteristics of homelessness in Maine.

[[Page S7212]]

  A single continuum of care has achieved efficiencies in 
administrating the responsibilities delegated by the Federal Government 
to meet the challenge of ending homelessness in Maine. As a unit, they 
identify the homeless service priorities and distribute resources 
accordingly. The organizations and agencies that participate in 
continuum of care include: Maine's network of 37 emergency shelters 
serving the entire State; MaineHousing and the Department of Health and 
Human Services; homeless youth providers; veterans groups; mental 
health and substance abuse service providers; supportive housing 
developers; local governments and public housing authorities; and 
homeless advocacy organizations. In addition to providing housing and 
services, the members of the Maine Continuum of Care play a major role 
in several other statewide initiatives, including participating in the 
data collection and entry for the annual homeless assessment report 
AHAR, and new system performance measure reports.
  This significant merger was a collaborative endeavor involving 
Maine's homeless provider organizations, social service providers, and 
State and Federal agencies. I especially want to thank the leadership 
and guidance provided by MaineHousing, the State's housing authority, 
and the chairs of Maine's continuums throughout the merger process. I 
am honored to recognize all who were involved and to thank them for 
placing the individuals and families who are struggling to meet this 
basic human need for a warm, safe, and stable home at the center of our 
collective efforts to end homelessness in the State of Maine.

                          ____________________



