

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7976-S7977]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS

                                 ______
                                 

    SENATE RESOLUTION 357--EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE SENATE THAT 
  INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION AND EXCHANGE PROGRAMS FURTHER UNITED STATES 
NATIONAL SECURITY AND FOREIGN POLICY PRIORITIES, ENHANCE UNITED STATES 
    ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS, AND PROMOTE MUTUAL UNDERSTANDING AND 
           COOPERATION AMONG NATIONS, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

  Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Rubio, Mrs. 
Shaheen, Mr. Booker, Mr. Peters, Mr. Coons, Mr. Markey, Mr. Wicker, 
Mrs. Capito, Ms. Warren, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Warner, 
Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Murphy, Mr. King, Mr. Carper, Mr. Wyden, Mr. 
Menendez, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Brown, Mr. Johnson, Mr. 
Franken, and Ms. Stabenow) submitted the following resolution; which 
was considered and agreed to:

                              S. Res. 357

       Whereas hundreds of thousands of United States secondary 
     and post-secondary students, from congressional districts in 
     all 50 States, study overseas each year;
       Whereas, according to the Department of State, more than 
     1,000,000 international students and other international 
     education and exchange participants annually help create 
     mutual understanding by living, studying, and working in 
     local communities throughout the United States;
       Whereas international education and exchange programs serve 
     an effective and proven diplomatic function with countries 
     key to United States foreign policy and national security 
     priorities, encouraging goodwill towards the United States;
       Whereas promoting the United States as a destination for 
     international students and professionals, while encouraging 
     United States students and professionals to gain 
     international experience abroad, are wise investments in our 
     Nation's economic competitiveness;
       Whereas it is imperative that United States students 
     understand how to interact with their peers from around the 
     world and operate in multicultural environments;
       Whereas it is important to diversify the pool of United 
     States citizens participating in international study and 
     exchange experiences, including groups that have been 
     historically underrepresented in these programs;
       Whereas students and other young people are the world's 
     future leaders and innovators;
       Whereas there are multitudes of private, not-for-profit 
     organized and funded exchange programs and many that are 
     funded by the United States Government;
       Whereas international education and exchange programs exist 
     at multiple levels of the educational spectrum, including 
     high school, undergraduate, graduate, educator, citizen, 
     cultural, and sports programs;
       Whereas according to an economic analysis of international 
     student enrollment data and tuition data by NAFSA: 
     Association of International Educators--
       (1) international students consistently have a positive 
     impact on the United States economy and job creation in every 
     State and Congressional district;

[[Page S7977]]

       (2) international students studying at United States 
     colleges and universities contributed $32,800,000,000 to the 
     United States economy and supported more than 400,000 jobs 
     during the 2015-16 academic year, which represents a 7.2 
     percent increase in job support and creation and a 7 percent 
     increase in money contributed to the economy compared to the 
     previous academic year;
       Whereas exchange experiences enable international visitors 
     to become informal ambassadors for their home countries while 
     they are in the United States and for the United States when 
     they return to their home countries by sharing an 
     appreciation for common values, counteracting stereotypes, 
     and enhancing mutual respect for cultural differences;
       Whereas research indicates that the United States needs to 
     encourage more students to graduate with expertise in foreign 
     languages, cultures, and politics to fill the demands of 
     business, government, and universities;
       Whereas international education and exchange programs are a 
     particularly effective way for American students to develop 
     foreign language capability and cultural awareness, which are 
     skills that United States employers seek to remain globally 
     competitive; and
       Whereas international education and exchange programs shape 
     the views and opinions of participants, many of whom are or 
     will become leaders in their communities, both in the United 
     States and abroad:
       Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) recognizes that international education and exchange 
     programs--
       (A) enhance national security;
       (B) further United States foreign policy goals and economic 
     competitiveness; and
       (C) promote mutual understanding and cooperation among 
     nations;
       (2) encourages international education and exchange 
     programs to ensure that the United States maintains a broad 
     international knowledge base;
       (3) supports international education and exchange programs 
     as a means of strengthening foreign language skills and 
     fostering a better understanding of the world by United 
     States citizens, especially youth;
       (4) commends the American and international education and 
     exchange participants, volunteers, educators, program alumni, 
     host families, high schools, colleges, universities, and host 
     communities for their involvement in such programs; and
       (5) celebrates the integral role international education 
     and exchange programs play for the United States and its 
     people.

                          ____________________



