

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H8288]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1915
               AFFORDABLE CARE ACT OPEN ENROLLMENT SEASON

  (Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.)
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, before I start, I would like to express 
my sympathy and concern for those who lost their life in New York 
through an alleged terrorist act and to pray for their families.
  Let me also make mention of the fact, Mr. Speaker, that tomorrow, 
November 1, begins the open enrollment. We know that this President has 
tried to sabotage the Affordable Care Act; but, in fact, you have until 
December 15. We believe that more than 12 million people will register.
  This is a very important opportunity because, many times in the past, 
under the previous affordable healthcare structure, you wouldn't have 
this time to apply. But the Affordable Care Act is still the law of the 
land, and we should extend that law for everyone to be able to enroll.
  Finally, let me thank the Texans for taking a knee in recognition of 
opposing language where football players were called inmates in a 
prison. I, frankly, believe I wanted to come to the floor to make that 
point. Later in the week, I will take a knee on this floor to 
acknowledge them.
  Finally, I would like to indicate that I hope that there will be an 
apology coming from General Kelly for Congresswoman Wilson.
  Finally, I want to be able to say something good, which is, Go 
Astros, the greatest team in the world. Go Astros.
  Mr. Speaker, tomorrow, November 1, 2017 marks the beginning of the 
fifth ``Open Enrollment Season'' for the Affordable Care Act.
  During open enrollment people can sign up for health insurance 
coverage for 2018.
  Open season ends on December 15, 2017, so I encourage all Americans 
to act without delay to ensure that they and their loved ones are 
covered.
  More than 12 million people nationwide have selected individual 
healthcare plans through federal and state marketplaces.
  If you held individual or family health insurance, and we all do, now 
is the time to sign-up.
  Under the Affordable Care Act--more commonly known as ``Obamacare''--
you can sign up for health insurance on your state's health insurance 
exchange or individual marketplace but only during an annual open 
enrollment period that this year starts November 1 and will end on 
December 15.
  The only other times you may purchase health insurance is following a 
``qualifying life event,'' such as getting married or divorced or 
having a baby.
  If you buy health insurance through your workplace, your employer 
will inform you about its open enrollment period.
  The following information is for people buying health insurance on 
their own.
  If your are buying health insurance on your own, you have several 
options for purchasing a policy:
  From your state's health insurance marketplace--check Healthcare.gov 
to find the market place for your state;
  Directly from a health insurance company;
  From websites like Insure.com that offers health insurance quotes 
from multiple carriers; or
  From a health insurance agent.
  We know the Trump Administration is attempting to sabotage enrollment 
during this year's shortened open enrollment period by cutting back on 
the outreach needed to inform the public about Open Enrollment Season.
  The Center for American Progress estimates that under good-faith 
management of the marketplaces and the open enrollment process, 2018 
marketplace enrollment would hold steady at about 12.2 million plan 
selections.
  Unfortunately, the Trump Administration's repeated actions to 
destabilize insurance markets, repeal the ACA, and undermine open 
enrollment, threaten this progress and are designed to depress 
enrollment in 2018.
  The President is creating uncertainty in the nation's health 
insurance marketplaces, which prior to January 20, 2017 were on track 
for continued growth in the number of people with health insurance.
  This weekend, if you have health insurance take time to make sure 
that your relatives have enrolled.
  The most important thing that Americans can do to preserve access to 
affordable health insurance is to enroll in a health care plan before 
the December 15, 2017 deadline.

                          ____________________



