

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 208 (Wednesday, December 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 208 (Wednesday, December 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S8180-S8181]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




     150TH ANNIVERSARY OF BETHEL AFRICAN METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH

 Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 150th 
anniversary of Bethel African Methodist Episcopal--A.M.E.--Church in 
Saginaw, MI. This occasion commemorates the humble beginnings of Bethel 
A.M.E. from a church of 6 to now more than 1,000 congregants, 
celebrating 150 years of faith, fellowship, and family.
  Bethel A.M.E. Church, the first African-American church in Saginaw, 
began in the home of Mr. and Mrs. Allen Ford, with six congregants in 
1867. The church began to rapidly grow and became the social and 
religious foundation and place of refuge for African Americans in the 
community. As Bethel A.M.E. rose in prominence, it attracted the 
attention of notable figures, including abolitionist and women's rights 
activist Sojourner Truth in 1871.
  Over the past 150 years, more than a dozen pastors have led Bethel 
A.M.E. and have left lasting contributions to the church's fundamental 
mission and community outreach. Reverend J.A. Dean's passion for 
ministering to youth laid the foundation for youth programs such as the 
Daily Vacation Bible School and the Carver Center of National Youth 
Organization in Saginaw. Each pastor had a hand in the expansion of the 
church. Reverend Isaiah Snelling spearheaded the development of a new 
church complex. After 12 years, the construction was completed under 
Rev. Harold C. Huggins' tenure in 1967. Bethel A.M.E. celebrated the 
church's centennial and dedication of the new development within the 
same year.
  Bethel A.M.E. has had many successes over the years and has also 
endured great tragedy. Kenneth Bowman stepped into the role of 
substitute pastor when Rev. R.C. Boyd, who served from 1949 to 1954, 
became ill. Pastor Bowman accomplished many goals within his 1-year 
tenure, until he was killed in an automobile accident on March 13, 
1954. Soon after, Pastor Boyd passed away on March 18, 1954, succumbing 
to his illness.
  Through the tragedies, Bethel A.M.E. held true to its motto: ``Love 
Conquers All,'' by providing for the physical and spiritual needs of 
the Saginaw community with steadfast and compassionate stewardship by 
organizing missions, youth programs, and prison ministries. Bethel 
A.M.E. also feeds the hungry, assists residents experiencing 
homelessness, and operates both a credit union and daycare center.
  Today Bethel A.M.E. Church, led by Pastor Dennis Laffoon, is the 
oldest African-American church in the Great Lakes Bay Region. Their 
membership has grown from its six founding members into a proud and 
active body of more than 1,000 strong. In its 150 years, Bethel A.M.E. 
has been a community institution, spiritual refuge, and civic leader in 
Saginaw.
  I am pleased to rise today to ask my colleagues to join me in 
recognizing the historic milestone of the 150th anniversary of Bethel 
African Methodist Episcopal Church. From modest beginnings in that 
little home on Fourth Street to expanding its square footage and its 
mission to pass on the blessings they have received onto the community, 
Bethel A.M.E. has much to celebrate. I wish the leadership and 
congregation continued success and prosperity in the years 
ahead.

[[Page S8181]]

  

                          ____________________



