

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 197 (Monday, December 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 197 (Monday, December 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7819]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            HONORING NEVADA'S WORLD WAR II FILIPINO VETERANS

  Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, today I wish to honor several Nevada 
heroes who recently received the Congressional Gold Medal for their 
service in the Philippines during World War II: Sergeant Regalado 
Baldonado, Private Aurelio Dela Cruz, Corporal Benito Anton, and 
Private First Class Leonardo Palao and the many other Filipino and 
Filipino-American veterans across our Nation.
  I would also like to acknowledge Maximino Vasquez, a recognized World 
War II Filipino veteran and Nevada resident who is on his way to 
receiving the Congressional Gold Medal as well. My appreciation for all 
of their service and sacrifice is immeasurable.
  During World War II, more than 260,000 Filipino soldiers from the 
U.S. Commonwealth of the Philippines answered President Roosevelt's 
call to fight under the American flag. These individuals fought 
bravely, some making the ultimate sacrifice in defense of democracy and 
freedom. More than half a century later, our Nation made a commitment 
to honoring them for their service.
  As a member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, I believe it 
is our solemn responsibility to recognize those who put their lives on 
the line. That is why I was proud to work with my colleague Senator 
Hirono to pass into law the Filipino Veterans of World War II 
Congressional Gold Medal Act, Public Law 114-265, to recognize the 
dedication and heroism of these individuals.
  On October 25, 2017, Congress paused to recognize Filipino World War 
II veterans with the Congressional Gold Medal, the Nation's highest 
civilian honor, and I could not be more proud and humbled that Nevada 
is home to Filipino veterans who served and are most deserving of this 
medal. Today I would like to again recognize and honor Filipino 
veterans who are living in Nevada: Regalado Baldonado, Aurelio Dela 
Cruz, Benito Anton, Leonardo Palao, and Maximino Vasquez. To these 
heroes, your place in history will not be forgotten. There are also 
many other Filipino veterans from Nevada who have passed on, but our 
gratitude extends to their family members who will ensure their legacy 
lives on.
  While the awarding of this Congressional Gold Medal is a proud moment 
for the Filipino community and America, many Filipino veterans have yet 
to receive recognition for their service. There is no doubt to me that 
Filipino soldiers served honorably in the Commonwealth Army of the 
Philippines, Recognized Guerilla Forces, and New Philippine Scouts 
alongside U.S. troops during World War II. However, some have still not 
been verified by the U.S. for their service because they don't have the 
documentation the U.S. requires. This is an injustice that I will 
continue fighting so that every Filipino veteran is afforded respect 
for and acknowledgement of their contributions to our country.
  I am honored to acknowledge all Filipino and Filipino-American 
veterans for their dedication to our country and am proud this 
Congressional Gold Medal will serve as a constant reminder of the 
importance of the Filipino and Filipino-American community in our 
Nation's history.

                          ____________________



