

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 187 (Wednesday, November 15, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9374-H9375]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                     PUBLICATION OF COMMITTEE RULES


    RULES OF THE COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY FOR THE 115TH CONGRESS-

                                         House of Representatives,


                                   Committee on the Judiciary,

                                Washington, DC, November 15, 2017.
     Hon. Paul Ryan,
     Speaker, House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Speaker: Pursuant to clause 2(a)(2) of House of 
     Representatives Rule XI, I am submitting the Committee on the 
     Judiciary's Rules of Procedure for publication in the 
     Congressional Record. These rules were adopted by a vote of 
     the Committee on January 24, 2017.
           Sincerely,
                                                    Bob Goodlatte,
                                                         Chairman.


                                Rule I.

       The Rules of the House of Representatives are the rules of 
     the Committee on the Judiciary and its Subcommittees with the 
     following specific additions thereto.


                      Rule II. Committee Meetings

       (a) The regular meeting day of the Committee on the 
     Judiciary for the conduct of its business shall be on 
     Wednesday of each week while the House is in session.
       (b) Additional meetings may be called by the Chairman and a 
     regular meeting of the Committee may be dispensed with when, 
     in the judgment of the Chairman, there is no need therefor.
       (c) The Chairman shall furnish each Member of the Committee 
     or Subcommittee with the date, place, and a list of bills and 
     subjects to be considered at a Committee or Subcommittee 
     meeting, which may not commence earlier than the third day on 
     which Members have notice thereof (excluding Saturdays, 
     Sundays and legal holidays when the House is not in session).
       (d) At least 48 hours prior to the commencement of a 
     meeting for the markup of legislation, the text of such 
     legislation shall be made publicly available in electronic 
     form.
       (e) In an emergency that does not reasonably allow for the 
     notice as requirements in (c) and (d), the Chairman may waive 
     the notice requirements with the concurrence of the Ranking 
     Minority Member
       (f) To the maximum extent practicable, amendments to a 
     measure or matter shall be submitted in writing or 
     electronically to the designee of both the Chairman and 
     Ranking Member at least 24 hours prior to the consideration 
     of the measure or matter. The Chairman may use his discretion 
     to give priority to amendments submitted in advance.
       (g) Committee and Subcommittee meetings for the transaction 
     of business, i.e. meetings other than those held for the 
     purpose of taking testimony, shall be open to the public 
     except when the Committee or Subcommittee determines by 
     majority vote to close the meeting because disclosure of 
     matters to be considered would endanger national security, 
     would compromise sensitive law enforcement information, or 
     would tend to defame, degrade or incriminate any person or 
     otherwise would violate any law or rule of the House.
       (h) Every motion made to the Committee and entertained by 
     the Chairman shall be reduced to writing upon demand of any 
     Member, and a copy made available to each Member present.
       (i) For purposes of taking any action at a meeting of the 
     full Committee or any Subcommittee thereof for which a 
     majority is not required, a quorum shall be constituted by 
     the presence of not less than one-third of the Members of the 
     Committee or Subcommittee, respectively.
       (j)(1) Subject to subparagraph (2), the Chairman may 
     postpone further proceedings when a record vote is ordered on 
     the question of approving any measure or matter or adopting 
     an amendment. The Chairman may resume proceedings on a 
     postponed request at any time.
       (2) In exercising postponement authority under subparagraph 
     (1), the Chairman shall take all reasonable steps necessary 
     to notify Members on the resumption of proceedings on any 
     postponed record vote.
       (3) When proceedings resume on a postponed question, 
     notwithstanding any intervening order for the previous 
     question, an underlying proposition shall remain subject to 
     further debate or amendment to the same extent as when the 
     question was postponed.
       (k) Transcripts of markups shall be recorded and may be 
     published in the same manner as hearings before the Committee
       (l) Without further action of the Committee, the Chairman 
     is directed to offer a motion under clause 1 of rule XXII of 
     the Rules of the House of Representatives whenever the 
     Chairman considers it appropriate.


                           Rule III. Hearings

       (a) The Committee Chairman or any Subcommittee Chairman 
     shall make public announcement of the date, place, and 
     subject matter of any hearing to be conducted by it on any 
     measure or matter at least one week before the commencement 
     of that hearing. If the Chairman of the Committee, or 
     Subcommittee, with the concurrence of the Ranking Minority 
     Member, determines there is good cause to begin the hearing 
     sooner, or if the Committee or Subcommittee so determines by 
     majority vote, a quorum being present for the transaction of 
     business, the Chairman or Subcommittee Chairman shall make 
     the announcement at the earliest possible date.
       (b) Committee and Subcommittee hearings shall be open to 
     the public except when the Committee or Subcommittee 
     determines by majority vote to close the meeting because 
     disclosure of matters to be considered would endanger 
     national security, would compromise sensitive law enforcement 
     information, or would tend to defame, degrade or incriminate 
     any person or otherwise would violate any law or rule of the 
     House.
       (c) For purposes of taking testimony and receiving evidence 
     before the Committee or any Subcommittee, a quorum shall be 
     constituted by the presence of two Members
       (d) In the course of any hearing each Member shall be 
     allowed five minutes for the interrogation of a witness until 
     such time as each Member who so desires has had an 
     opportunity to question the witness.
       (e) The transcripts of those hearings conducted by the 
     Committee which are decided to be printed shall be published 
     in verbatim form, with the material requested for the record 
     inserted at that place requested, or at the end of the 
     record, as appropriate. Individuals, including Members of 
     Congress, whose comments are to be published as part of a 
     Committee document shall be given the opportunity to verify 
     the accuracy of the transcription in advance of publication. 
     Any requests by those Members, staff or witnesses to correct 
     any errors other than errors in the transcription, or 
     disputed errors in transcription, shall be appended to the 
     record, and the appropriate place where the change is 
     requested will be footnoted. Prior to approval by the 
     Chairman of hearings conducted jointly with another 
     congressional Committee, a memorandum of understanding shall 
     be prepared which incorporates an agreement for the 
     publication of the verbatim transcript.


                           Rule IV. Subpoenas

       (a) A subpoena may be authorized and issued by the 
     Chairman, in accordance with clause 2(m) of rule XI of the 
     House of Representatives, in the conduct of any investigation 
     or activity or series of investigations or activities within 
     the jurisdiction of the Committee, following consultation 
     with the Ranking Minority Member.
       (b) In addition, a subpoena may be authorized and issued by 
     the Committee or its Subcommittees in accordance with clause 
     2(m) of rule XI of the House of Representatives, in the 
     conduct of any investigation or activity or series of 
     investigations or activities, when authorized by a majority 
     of the Members voting, a majority of the Committee or Sub- 
     committee being present. Authorized subpoenas shall be 
     signed by the Chairman or by any Member designated by the 
     Committee.
       (c) At least two business days before issuing any subpoena 
     pursuant to subsection (a), the Chair shall consult with the 
     Ranking Member regarding the authorization and issuance of 
     such subpoena, and the Chair shall provide a full copy of the 
     proposed subpoena, including any proposed document schedule, 
     at that time.
       (d) The requirements of subsection (c) may be waived in the 
     event of an emergency that does not reasonably allow for 
     advance written notice.


                          Rule V. Broadcasting

       Whenever a hearing or meeting conducted by the Committee or 
     any Subcommittee is open to the public, those proceedings 
     shall be open to coverage by television, radio and still 
     photography subject to the requirements of clause 4 of Rule 
     XI of the Rules of the House of Representatives.


                    Rule VI. Standing Subcommittees

       (a) The full Committee shall have jurisdiction over: 
     copyright, and other such matters as determined by the 
     Chairman, and relevant oversight.
       (b) There shall be five standing Subcommittees of the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, with jurisdictions as follows:
       The Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice 
     shall have jurisdiction over the following subject matters: 
     constitutional amendments, constitutional rights, Federal 
     civil rights, claims against the United States, non-
     immigration private claims bills, ethics in government, tort 
     liability, including medical malpractice and product 
     liability, legal reform generally, other appropriate matters 
     as referred by the Chairman, and relevant oversight.
       The Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the 
     Internet shall have jurisdiction over the following subject 
     matters: Administration of U.S. Courts, Federal Rules of 
     Evidence, Civil and Appellate Procedure, judicial ethics, 
     patent and trademark law, information technology, other 
     appropriate matters as referred to by the Chairman, and 
     relevant oversight.
       The Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, 
     and Investigations shall have jurisdiction over the following 
     subject matters: Federal Criminal Code, drug enforcement, 
     sentencing, parole and pardons, internal and homeland 
     security, Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, prisons, 
     criminal law enforcement, and other appropriate matters as 
     referred by the Chairman, and relevant oversight.
       The Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security shall 
     have jurisdiction over the following subject matters: 
     immigration and naturalization, border security, admission of 
     refugees, treaties, conventions and international agreements, 
     Federal charters of incorporation, private immigration bills, 
     non-border immigration enforcement, other appropriate matters 
     as referred by the Chairman, and relevant oversight.
       The Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform, Commercial and 
     Antitrust Law shall have

[[Page H9375]]

     jurisdiction over the following subject matters: bankruptcy 
     and commercial law, bankruptcy judgeships, administrative 
     law, independent counsel, state taxation affecting interstate 
     commerce, interstate compacts, antitrust matters, other 
     appropriate matters as referred by the Chairman, and relevant 
     oversight.
       (c) The Chairman of the Committee and Ranking Minority 
     Member thereof shall be ex officio Members, but not voting 
     Members, of each Subcommittee to which such Chairman or 
     Ranking Minority Member has not been assigned by resolution 
     of the Committee. Ex officio Members shall not be counted as 
     present for purposes of constituting a quorum at any hearing 
     or meeting of such Subcommittee.


              Rule VII. Powers and Duties of Subcommittees

       Each Subcommittee is authorized to meet, hold hearings, 
     receive evidence, and report to the full Committee on all 
     matters referred to it or under its jurisdiction. 
     Subcommittee chairmen shall set dates for hearings and 
     meetings of their respective Subcommittees after consultation 
     with the Chairman and other Subcommittee chairmen with a view 
     toward avoiding simultaneous scheduling of full Committee and 
     Subcommittee meetings or hearings whenever possible.


                   Rule VIII. Non-Legislative Reports

       No report of the Committee or Subcommittee which does not 
     accompany a measure or matter for consideration by the House 
     shall be published unless all Members of the Committee or 
     Subcommittee issuing the report shall have been apprised of 
     such report and given the opportunity to give notice of 
     intention to file supplemental, additional, or dissenting 
     views as part of the report. In no case shall the time in 
     which to file such views be less than three calendar days 
     (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays when the 
     House is not in session).


                       Rule IX. Committee Records

       The records of the Committee at the National Archives and 
     Records Administration shall be made available for public use 
     according to the Rules of the House. The Chairman shall 
     notify the Ranking Minority Member of any decision to 
     withhold a record otherwise available, and the matter shall 
     be presented to the Committee for a determination on the 
     written request of any Member of the Committee.


                   Rule X. Official Committee Website

       (a) The Chairman shall maintain an official website on 
     behalf of the Committee for the purpose of furthering the 
     Committee's legislative and oversight responsibilities, 
     including communicating information about the Committee's 
     activities to Committee Members and other Members of the 
     House.
       (b) The Chairman shall make the record of the votes on any 
     question on which a record vote is demanded in the full 
     Committee available on the Committee's official website not 
     later than 48 hours after such vote is taken. Such record 
     shall identify or describe the amendment, motion, order, or 
     other proposition, the name of each Member voting for and 
     each Member voting against such amendment, motion, order, or 
     proposition, and the names of the Members voting present.
       (c) Not later than 24 hours after the adoption of any 
     amendment to a measure or matter considered by the Committee 
     or its Subcommittees, the Chairman shall make the text of 
     each such amendment publicly available in electronic form.
       (d) Not later than 3 days after the conclusion of a 
     Committee meeting, the transcript of such meeting and the 
     text of all amendments offered shall be made available on the 
     Committee website.
       (e) The Ranking Member is authorized to maintain a similar 
     official website on behalf of the Committee Minority for the 
     same purpose, including communicating information about the 
     activities of the Minority to Committee Members and other 
     Members of the House.

                          ____________________



