

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 183 (Thursday, November 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 183 (Thursday, November 9, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H8665-H8666]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




      HONORING ARKANSAS MILITARY VETERANS' HALL OF FAME INDUCTEES

  (Mr. WESTERMAN asked and was given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend his remarks.)
  Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to the 15 men 
and women recently inducted into the Arkansas Military Veterans' Hall 
of Fame.
  Of the 15 inductees, the Hall of Fame selected 10 ``exclusively for 
their brave military service to our country,'' while it selected an 
additional 5 for their ``combined military and civilian service to our 
community, State, and Nation.''
  I am proud to note that 8 of these 15 American heroes hail from the 
Fourth Congressional District of Arkansas, serving in conflicts ranging 
from World War II to Vietnam, as well as Iraq and Afghanistan. This 
speech simply is not enough time to recognize their courage and 
sacrifice for our Nation.
  I extend my thanks to all those who served as we recognize Veterans 
Day.
  Mr. Speaker, I submit for the Record a brief biography of each of the 
Fourth District heroes honored by the Arkansas Military Veterans' Hall 
of Fame.

      Honoring Arkansas Military Veterans' Hall of Fame Inductees

                 Rep. Bruce Westerman/November 9, 2017

        Biographies of Fourth Congressional District Inductees (as 
     provided by the AMVHOF):
       Chief Petty Officer Adam Lee Brown, deceased (Killed in 
     Action), Hot Springs, U.S. Navy, Iraq (two tours), 
     Afghanistan (two tours). Awards include the Silver Star Medal 
     for Gallantry in Action, the Bronze Star Medal with Valor, 
     the Purple Heart Medal, the Defense Meritorious Service 
     Medal, and three Navy Achievement Medals.
       Specialist Four Roger K. Hollinger, Sr., deceased, 
     Prattsville, U.S. Army, Vietnam. Awards include the Silver 
     Star Medal with First Oak Leaf Cluster for Gallantry in 
     Action, the Bronze Star Medal for Exceptionally Meritorious 
     Combat Achievement, and the Army Commendation Medal for 
     Valor.
       Major General Billie (Bill) Branham Lefler, deceased, Hot 
     Springs Village, U.S. Army, Vietnam. Awards include two 
     Distinguished Service Medals, the Legion of Merit Medal, and 
     the Army Commendation Medal.
       Major General Sidney Sanders McMath, Deceased, Magnolia, 
     U.S. Marine Corp, World War II. Awards include the Silver 
     Star Medal for Gallantry in Action, and the Legion of Merit 
     Medal for Valor.
       Colonel Billie Ray Wood, Mena, U.S. Army, Vietnam. Awards 
     include the Legion of Merit Medal, the Distinguished Flying 
     Cross, the Army Soldier's Medal, the Bronze Star Medal for 
     exceptionally meritorious combat achievement, two Meritorious 
     Service Medals, 22 Air Medals, and three Army Commendation 
     Medals.
       Technician Fourth Grade Doyle Ray Collie, deceased, New 
     DeRoche, U.S. Army, World War II. Awards include the Purple 
     Heart Medal, Presidential Unit Citation, and the European 
     African Middle Eastern Theater Ribbon with four Bronze 
     Service Stars.
       Lieutenant Colonel Mary Virginia Erdman, Hot Springs 
     Village, U.S. Army Reserves, Desert Storm. Awards include two 
     Army Commendation Medals, Army Reserve Components Achievement 
     Medal. Erdman has been very active in several veteran's 
     service organizations, and was the commander of the Arkansas 
     State Legion Department from 2012 to 2013.
       Lieutenant Commander John Roger Rickard, Alma, U.S. Navy, 
     Vietnam. Awards include the Meritorious Service Medal, three 
     Navy Commendation Medals, and the Navy Achievement Medal. 
     During the Vietnam War, Rickard served three cruises as a 
     torpedo mate on fast frigates. Upon retiring from the Navy, 
     Rickard founded the Alma High School JROTC program and served 
     17 years.

[[Page H8666]]

  

                          ____________________



