

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 188 (Thursday, November 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 188 (Thursday, November 16, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H9424-H9425]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER (for herself, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. Sablan, Mr. 
             Bera, and Mr. Doggett):
       H.R. 4416. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to remove barriers for students seeking Federal financial aid 
     by reducing the complexity and length of the Free Application 
     for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and increasing support for 
     working students and vulnerable populations; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Joyce of 
             Ohio, and Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas):
       H.R. 4417. A bill to amend the Harmful Algal Bloom and 
     Hypoxia Research and Control Act of 1998 to address harmful 
     algal blooms, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Science, Space, and Technology, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. BONAMICI:
       H.R. 4418. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     provide for a demonstration program to facilitate the 
     clinical adoption of pregnancy intention screening 
     initiatives by health care providers; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. NEWHOUSE (for himself and Mr. Reichert):
       H.R. 4419. A bill to facilitate and streamline the Bureau 
     of Reclamation and Bureau of Indian Affairs processes for 
     creating or expanding certain water projects, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself, Mr. Wittman, Mr. 
             Sarbanes, Ms. Norton, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Brown of 
             Maryland, Mr. Hoyer, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. McEachin, 
             Mr. Cummings, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Mr. Delaney, Mr. 
             Raskin, and Mrs. Comstock):
       H.R. 4420. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     address critical conservation conditions under the regional 
     conservation partnership program, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. DeSAULNIER (for himself, Mr. Rodney Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. DeFazio, and Mr. Smucker):
       H.R. 4421. A bill to amend title 23, United States Code, 
     with respect to vehicle weight limitations, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa:
       H.R. 4422. A bill to amend section 1951 of title 18, United 
     States Code (commonly known as the Hobbs Act), and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas (for himself, Mr. Sessions, 
             Mr. Ratcliffe, and Mr. Hensarling):
       H.R. 4423. A bill to limit claims under Federal law seeking 
     judicial review of any environmental impact statement, 
     environmental review, or authorization for the Lower Bois 
     d'Arc Creek Reservoir Project in Fannin County, Texas, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BLUM (for himself, Mr. Chabot, and Mr. Crist):
       H.R. 4424. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide an exclusion from gross income for interest 
     on certain small business loans; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
       H.R. 4425. A bill to reform the safety net for farmers and 
     ranchers, enhance soil, water, and habitat conservation, 
     encourage beginning farmers and ranchers, strengthen 
     nutrition for Americans, support agriculture research and 
     innovation, reduce food waste, improve animal welfare, and 
     invest in regional food systems, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Ways and Means, Education and the Workforce, 
     and Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Beyer, 
             Mr. Soto, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Gomez, 
             Mr. Huffman, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Connolly, Ms. Norton, 
             Ms. Barragan, Ms. Lee, Mr. McEachin, Ms. Eshoo, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Polis, and Ms. Roybal-Allard):
       H.R. 4426. A bill to reform Federal onshore and offshore 
     fossil fuel leasing, exploration, and development; promote 
     renewable energy on public lands; prepare for the impacts of 
     climate change; increase industry accountability; improve 
     returns to taxpayers for the development of Federal energy 
     resources; and protect special places, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Energy and Commerce, 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, Agriculture, Education and 
     the Workforce, Ways and Means, and Science, Space, and 
     Technology, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. McSALLY (for herself, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Higgins of 
             Louisiana, and Mr. Jenkins of West Virginia):
       H.R. 4427. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to eliminate the diversity immigrant program, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GALLEGO (for himself and Mr. Byrne):
       H.R. 4428. A bill to amend the War Powers Resolution to 
     transfer to the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
     Representatives the responsibilities assigned under such 
     Resolution to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House 
     of Representatives, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Rules, and in addition to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BERGMAN (for himself, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. 
             Walberg, Mr. Westerman, Mr. Peterson, and Mr. Upton):
       H.R. 4429. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior 
     to reissue a rule relating to extension of the expiration 
     dates for double-crested cormorant depredation orders, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself, Ms. Castor of Florida, 
             Mr. Olson, and Mr. Gene Green of Texas):
       H.R. 4430. A bill to provide temporary direct hire 
     authority for certain emergency response positions; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CARTER of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Jody B. Hice 
             of Georgia, Mr. Banks of Indiana, Mrs. Radewagen, Mr. 
             Meadows, Mrs. Handel, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, Mr. 
             Gomez, and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 4431. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     provide for interest payments by agencies in the case of 
     administrative error in processing certain annuity deposits 
     for prior military service; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, and in addition to the Committee on House 
     Administration, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Cummings, and Mr. 
             Cicilline):
       H.R. 4432. A bill to amend section 1018 of the Residential 
     Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 to make 
     violators of such section liable to residents and invitees of 
     target housing for such violations, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. CORREA (for himself and Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi):
       H.R. 4433. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to require the Under Secretary for Management of the 
     Department of Homeland Security to achieve security of 
     sensitive assets among the components of the Department of 
     Homeland Security, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. CUELLAR (for himself, Mr. Culberson, Ms. Esty of 
             Connecticut, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, and Mr. 
             Aguilar):
       H.R. 4434. A bill to enforce current law regarding the 
     National Instant Criminal Background Check System; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FASO (for himself, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Katko, Mr. 
             Donovan, Mr. King of New York, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Ryan 
             of Ohio, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, 
             Mr. Stivers, and Mr. Kildee):

[[Page H9425]]

  

       H.R. 4435. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to allow the Secretary of Education to award Early College 
     Federal Pell Grants; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Miss GONZALEZ-COLON of Puerto Rico:
       H.R. 4436. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the 
     Interior to study the suitability and feasibility of 
     designating Caguana Indigenous Ceremonial Park and Tibes 
     Indigenous Ceremonial Center, as units of the National Park 
     System; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana (for himself, Mr. Walz, Mr. 
             Abraham, Mr. Babin, Mr. Crawford, Mr. Kinzinger, Mr. 
             Smith of Missouri, Mrs. Hartzler, and Ms. McSally):
       H.R. 4437. A bill to amend the Uniform Code of Military 
     Justice to prohibit the payment of back pay and allowances to 
     certain members of the Armed Forces who are guilty of 
     desertion and to use the amount of any such unpaid pay and 
     allowances to provide additional compensation to other 
     members of the Armed Forces who were killed or wounded during 
     missions to search for the missing members; to the Committee 
     on Armed Services.
           By Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana (for himself, Mr. Richmond, 
             Mr. McCaul, Ms. Plaskett, Mr. Culberson, Mr. Crist, 
             Mr. Carter of Texas, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, Mr. 
             Farenthold, Mr. Webster of Florida, Miss Gonzalez-
             Colon of Puerto Rico, Mr. Weber of Texas, and Mr. 
             Babin):
       H.R. 4438. A bill to amend the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
     Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to waive a prohibition, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH (for himself, Mr. Hastings, Mr. 
             McHenry, Mr. Luetkemeyer, and Mr. Cuellar):
       H.R. 4439. A bill to amend the Revised Statutes, the Bank 
     Service Company Act, the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, and 
     the Home Owners' Loan Act to clarify that the role of the 
     insured depository institution as lender and the location of 
     an insured depository institution under applicable law are 
     not affected by any contract between the institution and a 
     third party service provider, and to clarify that Federal 
     preemption of State usury laws applies to any loan to which 
     an insured depository institution is the party to which the 
     debt is initially owed according to its terms, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mrs. LOWEY:
       H.R. 4440. A bill to require the Secretary of Energy to 
     retain and redistribute certain amounts collected as fines; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. LOWEY:
       H.R. 4441. A bill to amend the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 to 
     prohibit certain waivers and exemptions from emergency 
     preparedness and response and security regulations; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. LOWEY:
       H.R. 4442. A bill to amend the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 
     1982 to authorize the Secretary of Energy to enter into 
     contracts for the storage of certain high-level radioactive 
     waste and spent nuclear fuel, take title to certain high-
     level radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, and make 
     certain expenditures from the Nuclear Waste Fund; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico (for himself, Mr. 
             Young of Alaska, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Cole, Mrs. Torres, Mr. 
             Cardenas, Ms. McCollum, Ms. DelBene, Mrs. Dingell, 
             Mr. Smith of Washington, Ms. Eshoo, Ms. Moore, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Grijalva, and Ms. Matsui):
       H.R. 4443. A bill to extend the full Federal medical 
     assistance percentage to Urban Indian organizations; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. NEAL (for himself, Mr. Levin, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Higgins of New York, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. 
             Carson of Indiana, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Clyburn, Mrs. Dingell, 
             Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Evans, Ms. Fudge, Ms. Bonamici, 
             Mr. Hastings, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Kildee, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Ms. Maxine Waters of California, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Vela, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Sablan, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Blunt 
             Rochester, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Pallone, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Norcross, Mr. Nolan, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. 
             Moore, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. 
             Lynch, Mrs. Beatty, and Mr. Gene Green of Texas):
       H.R. 4444. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to create a Pension Rehabilitation Trust Fund, to 
     establish a Pension Rehabilitation Administration within the 
     Department of the Treasury to make loans to multiemployer 
     defined benefit plans, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to 
     the Committees on Ways and Means, and Appropriations, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. NOLAN:
       H.R. 4445. A bill to require air carriers to create and 
     make available a concise document regarding air passenger 
     rights; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Ms. PLASKETT:
       H.R. 4446. A bill to amend the Virgin Islands of the United 
     States Centennial Commission Act to extend the expiration 
     date of the Commission, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER (for himself and Mr. Ratcliffe):
       H.R. 4447. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     make certain changes to the reporting requirement of certain 
     service providers regarding child sexual exploitation visual 
     depictions, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. SIMPSON:
       H.R. 4448. A bill to provide for an exchange of Federal 
     land and non-Federal land in the State of Idaho, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. TURNER:
       H.R. 4449. A bill to designate the Federal building and 
     United States courthouse located at 200 West 2nd Street in 
     Dayton, Ohio, as the ``Walter H. Rice Federal Building and 
     United States Courthouse''; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. VEASEY (for himself, Mr. Jones, Mr. Cook, and 
             Ms. Norton):
       H.R. 4450. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide additional educational assistance under the Post-9/11 
     GI Bill for veterans pursuing a degree in science, 
     technology, engineering, or math; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. WENSTRUP (for himself and Ms. Brownley of 
             California):
       H.R. 4451. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for a five-year extension to the homeless veterans 
     reintegration programs and to provide clarification regarding 
     eligibility for services under such programs; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. HULTGREN (for himself, Mr. Budd, Mr. Duncan of 
             South Carolina, Mrs. Noem, Mr. Walberg, Mrs. 
             Comstock, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, Mr. Lamborn, 
             Mr. Banks of Indiana, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Posey, Mr. 
             Pittenger, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. Marchant, Mrs. Hartzler, 
             and Mr. Babin):
       H.J. Res. 121. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States relating to parental 
     rights; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania (for himself 
             and Ms. Norton):
       H. Res. 625. A resolution supporting the goals, activities, 
     and ideals of Prematurity Awareness Month; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. BROWN of Maryland:
       H. Res. 626. A resolution commending Turkish Americans 
     nationwide for their rich contributions to the diversity of 
     society, culture, economy, and civic life in the United 
     States; to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. JENKINS of Kansas (for herself, Mr. Kind, Mrs. 
             McMorris Rodgers, and Mr. Welch):
       H. Res. 627. A resolution recognizing that access to 
     hospitals and other health care providers for patients in 
     rural areas of the United States is essential to the survival 
     and success of communities in the United States; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself, Mr. McEachin, Ms. Norton, 
             Ms. Speier, Mr. Quigley, and Mr. Grijalva):
       H. Res. 628. A resolution recognizing the Transgender Day 
     of Remembrance; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. MENG:
       H. Res. 629. A resolution recognizing November 19, 2017 as 
     ``A Day in Honor of Women Entrepreneurs''; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.

                          ____________________



