

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 212 (Tuesday, December 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 212 (Tuesday, December 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H10428]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED

  Karen L. Haas, Clerk of the House, reported and found truly enrolled 
bills of the House of the following titles, which were thereupon signed 
by the Speaker pro tempore, Mr. Upton, on Friday, December 22, 2017:

       H.R. 267. An act to redesignate the Martin Luther King, 
     Junior, National Historic Site in the State of Georgia, and 
     for other purposes.
       H.R. 381. An act to designate a mountain in the John Muir 
     Wilderness of the Sierra National Forest as ``Sky Point''.
       H.R. 518. An act to amend the Energy Policy and 
     Conservation Act to exclude power supply circuits, drivers, 
     and devices designed to be connected to, and power, light-
     emitting diodes or organic light-emitting diodes providing 
     illumination from energy conservation standards for external 
     power supplies, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 560. An act to amend the Delaware Water Gap National 
     Recreation Area Improvement Act to provide access to certain 
     vehicles serving residents of municipalities adjacent to the 
     Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area, and for other 
     purposes.
       H.R. 699. An act to amend the Omnibus Public Land 
     Management Act of 2009 to modify provisions relating to 
     certain land exchanges in the Mt. Hood Wilderness in the 
     State of Oregon.
       H.R. 863. An act to facilitate the addition of park 
     administration at the Coltsville National Historical Park, 
     and for other purposes.
       H.R. 954. An act to remove the use restrictions on certain 
     land transferred to Rockingham County, Virginia, and for 
     other purposes.
       H.R. 1242. An act to establish the 400 Years of African-
     American History Commission, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 1306. An act to provide for the conveyance of certain 
     Federal land in the State of Oregon, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 1927. An act to amend title 54, United States Code, to 
     establish within the National Park Service the African 
     American Civil Rights Network, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 2142. An act to improve the ability of U.S. Customs 
     and Border Protection to interdict fentanyl, other synthetic 
     opioids, and other narcotics and psychoactive substances that 
     are illegally imported into the United States, and for other 
     purposes.
       H.R. 2228. An act to provide support for law enforcement 
     agency efforts to protect the mental health and well-being of 
     law enforcement officers, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 2331. An act to require a new or updated Federal 
     website that is intended for use by the public to be mobile 
     friendly, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 2611. An act to modify the boundary of the Little Rock 
     Central High School National Historic Site, and for other 
     purposes.
       H.R. 4661. An act to reauthorize the United States Fire 
     Administration, the Assistance to Firefighters Grants 
     program, the Fire Prevention and Safety Grants program, and 
     the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response grant 
     program, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



