

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 202 (Tuesday, December 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H9795]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        IMPEACH PRESIDENT TRUMP

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Al Green) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, once again, I enjoy the 
preeminent privilege of standing in the well of the Congress of the 
United States of America. I do not take lightly the opportunity that 
the people of this country have afforded me.
  Mr. Speaker, the topic that I will address today is not the one that 
I had in mind when contemplating this moment.
  Mr. Speaker, I have been moved by the words of a father--a father who 
spoke this morning on national television; a father who talked about 
his daughter and how his daughter had been a victim of bigotry; a 
father who talked about how his daughter had been spoken of in terms 
that were untrue; and a father who had been led to believe, he himself, 
that his daughter could be changed.
  He went to various professionals to try to seek help because his 
daughter was a lesbian, and they discovered that this was who she was, 
Mr. Speaker. This was not some charade, not some facade, not some 
disease, this was who she was. This is who God created, Mr. Speaker.
  And the saddest part of this story, Mr. Speaker, is that it doesn't 
have a happy ending. Because of bigotry and the way people have been 
misled, this daughter took her life.
  I literally had tears well up in my eyes as I heard the story. I am 
saddened by what happened, and I am saddened to know that a person 
associated with that bigotry may find his way to the Senate of the 
United States of America.
  Mr. Speaker, people ask: What harm does it do to allow bigotry to 
emanate from the highest offices in this country?
  There is some of your evidence, Mr. Bigotry, and those who perpetrate 
it. There is some of your evidence of how it can be harmful.
  But there is more evidence.
  When you speak ill of people who are exercising their constitutional 
right to protest, and you call their mothers dogs when you call them 
SOBs, you are creating harm to society, especially when it emanates 
from the highest office in the land.
  What harm does it cause to society when you associate the majesty and 
the dignity of the Presidency with those who would go to 
Charlottesville screaming ``blood and soil,'' proclaiming, ``Jews will 
not replace us.'' When you associate the majesty and the dignity of the 
Presidency with these people, you are doing harm to society, Mr. 
Speaker.
  So, Mr. Speaker, I will answer the question that has been posed. It 
is a question that I think is a fair one and ought to be answered. Here 
is the answer. You will surmise what the question is by virtue of my 
giving the answer. The answer is: there will be another vote to impeach 
this President. There will be another vote because I will not stand by 
and watch this country, the country I love, be brought into shame and 
disrepute because of a person who is unfit to hold the office of 
President.
  Mr. Speaker, history will judge us all. For those who find that this 
is unacceptable and unbearable, I am sorry, but the country is greater 
than we are. Government of the people, by the people, is greater than 
we are. Maintaining and saving the Republic is greater than we are, in 
one sense, but, in another sense, it really is who we are.
  I have a tie on that says: We, the people. We, the people, we are the 
ones who can make a difference. There will be another vote.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are reminded to refrain from 
engaging in personalities toward the President.

                          ____________________



