

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 164 (Thursday, October 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 164 (Thursday, October 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H7980]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          NATIONAL FARMERS DAY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, today is National Farmers 
Day. From farm to fork, our farmers work hard to put food on dinner 
tables across this country and around the world.
  Today has traditionally been a day to recognize farmers and thank 
them for all their endless hard work. Records of National Farmers Day 
events date back to the 1800s.
  Mr. Speaker, our farmers are the cornerstone of our rural 
communities. They face tough odds by the very nature of the business, 
and food security is national security.
  Right now, there is a critical shortfall of skilled young and 
beginning farmers and ranchers. That is why, together with Congressman 
Joe Courtney from Connecticut and Congressman John Faso from New York, 
we introduced the Young Farmer Success Act.
  This legislation provides incentives for those who would like to 
pursue a future in the agriculture industry by adding farmers to the 
Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program, which currently offers loan 
payback assistance for professions such as government service, 
teaching, and nursing.
  Under the program, eligible public service professionals who make 10 
years of income-driven student loan payments can have the balance of 
their loans forgiven.
  On Monday, I heard from a number of young farmers in upstate New York 
in Congressman Faso's district. The House Agriculture Committee hosted 
a farm bill listening session at SUNY Cobleskill, and we covered topics 
from dairy to specialty crops to nutrition assistance programs, and we 
heard a lot of excellent feedback from those who shared their stories 
with us.
  As the House Agriculture Committee works to craft the next farm bill, 
these listening sessions have allowed us to hear firsthand from those 
who are directly impacted by the farm bill. They provide us with real 
world examples of what is working and what isn't working.
  With farmers in every region of this country, we heard from many 
different perspectives. This feedback will help us write the best farm 
bill possible.
  Mr. Speaker, food security is national security, and it aids the 
long-term sustainability of our country. They provide fresh produce and 
products to communities throughout the country, and there is no better 
food than something grown locally.
  Today, we celebrate our food producers on National Farmers Day, but 
we should also celebrate them every day for putting food on our tables 
and in our grocery stores. Let's face it, farming is a tough business. 
Long hours, unpredictable commodity prices, and, even more, 
unpredictable weather conditions, but it is also exciting, rewarding, 
and full of opportunities.
  Generations of farmers have worked every patch of American soil 
caring for the Earth, their animals, and their neighbors.
  Mr. Speaker, as vice chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, I 
want to wholeheartedly thank America's farmers for providing our 
country with safe, sustainable, healthy, and nutritious food every day. 
Happy Farmers Day.

                          ____________________



