

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 206 (Monday, December 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 206 (Monday, December 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S8070-S8071]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 358

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 358, a bill to 
establish a designation for jurisdictions permissive to terrorism 
financing, to build the capacity of partner nations to investigate, 
prosecute, and hold accountable terrorist financiers, to impose 
restrictions on foreign financial institutions that provide financial 
services for terrorist organizations, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the names of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) and the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 540, a bill to limit the authority of 
States to tax certain income of employees for employment duties 
performed in other States.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 654, a bill to revise 
section 48 of title 18, United States Code, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 974

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the names of the Senator from Kentucky 
(Mr. Paul) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 974, a bill to promote competition in the market 
for drugs and biological products by facilitating the timely entry of 
lower-cost generic and biosimilar versions of those drugs and 
biological products.


                                S. 1689

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1689, a bill to amend the 
Controlled Substances Act to provide for a new rule regarding the 
application of the Act to marihuana, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1706

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1706, a bill to prevent 
human health

[[Page S8071]]

threats posed by the consumption of equines raised in the United 
States.


                                S. 1838

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1838, a bill to repeal the 
authority under the National Labor Relations Act for States to enact 
laws prohibiting agreements requiring membership in a labor 
organization as a condition of employment, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2089

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2089, a bill to amend 
the Older Americans Act of 1965 to provide equal treatment of LGBT 
older individuals, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2109

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2109, a bill to count 
revenues from military and veteran education programs toward the limit 
on Federal revenues that certain proprietary institutions of higher 
education are allowed to receive for purposes of section 487 of the 
Higher Education Act of 1965, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2127

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2127, a bill to 
award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the United States 
merchant mariners of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated 
and vital service during World War II.


                                S. 2211

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the names of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2211, a bill to establish a national 
endangered missing advisory communications network, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2219

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2219, a bill 
to reduce the number of preventable deaths and injuries caused by 
underride crashes, to improve motor carrier and passenger motor vehicle 
safety, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2236

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2236, a bill to require 
covered discrimination and covered harassment awareness and prevention 
training for Members, officers, employees, interns, fellows, and 
detailees of Congress within 30 days of employment and annually 
thereafter, to require a biennial climate survey of Congress, to amend 
the enforcement process under the Office of Congressional Workplace 
Rights for covered discrimination and covered harassment complaints, 
and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 355

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 355, a 
resolution improving procedures for the consideration of nominations in 
the Senate.

                          ____________________



