

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 176 (Tuesday, October 31, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6908-S6916]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR


            Wasteful Government Spending and Economic Growth

  Mr. PERDUE. Mr. President, since 2001, the Federal Government has 
exploded in constant dollars from $2.4 trillion in 2000 to last year 
almost $3.9 trillion in costs. Those are constant dollars. In September 
of this year, just a few weeks ago, our national debt surpassed $20 
trillion for the first time, and no one in Washington blinked an eye. 
If that is not enough of a wakeup call, this debt is projected to 
increase over the next 10 years, according to the budget we are 
operating under now, by another $11 trillion. If that is not enough, 
over the next 30 years alone, it is projected that over $100 trillion 
of future unfunded liabilities--Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, 
pension benefits for Federal employees, and the interest-only debt--are 
coming at us like a freight train. These are unfunded liabilities.
  Today, with $20 trillion in debt, we are only paying about $270 
billion every year in interest only. I say that because just in the 
last year, we have seen four increases in the Federal funds rate, which 
fundamentally increases our interest by 100 basis points. That 100 
basis points over the next few years will grow our interest on the debt 
by more than $200 billion on top of the $270 billion. By the way, today 
that is almost 25 percent of our discretionary budget, already, just at 
the $270 billion. If it doubles, it will be almost half of our 
discretionary budget. If interest rates just go back to their 30-year 
norm--between 4 percent and 5 percent--we could be paying as much as $1 
trillion on our Federal debt. That is almost equal to today's 
discretionary budget.
  It is going to take a long-term fix. We can't tax our way out of this 
problem. We can't cut our way out of this problem, and we can't just 
simply grow our way out. It is going to take a multifaceted approach. 
There are five interwoven imperatives that are at work in solving this 
problem. It is one thing to call the crisis, but it is another to call 
out the ways to fix it, and they are all within our grasp today.
  No. 1, we need to fix Washington's broken budget process.
  No. 2, we need to root out all the wasteful spending in the Federal 
Government today.
  No. 3, we have to grow the economy by repealing and pulling back on a 
lot of regulations that are unnecessary, by revamping our tax structure 
and by unleashing our energy potential.
  No. 4, we have to save Social Security and Medicare, of which both 
trust funds go to zero in 14 short years.
  Lastly, we finally have to get after the real drivers of spiraling 
healthcare costs.
  As we are working to change our archaic tax system to become 
competitive with the rest of the world and to get our economy rolling 
again, I want to talk about two things today. One is

[[Page S6909]]

this wasteful spending, and two is economic growth. These are two of 
the five imperatives that I just outlined.
  According to the General Accountability Office, today and also every 
single year, this Federal Government wastes hundreds of billions of 
dollars. It is estimated today--and this bipartisan organization has 
identified this--that we are overspending about $700 billion a year.
  Let's put that in perspective. As I just said, we spent $3.9 trillion 
running the entire Federal Government. That is about $1 trillion for 
discretionary spending and about $3 trillion for mandatory spending--so 
almost $4 trillion. Of that, over $700 billion has been identified as 
wasteful spending. I will describe those in a second, but to put it in 
perspective, that is almost 20 percent of everything we spend as a 
Federal Government. It is a larger number than what we spend on the 
national security of our country. Let me say that again. The number 
identified by the General Accountability Office of wasteful spending is 
larger than what we spend on our military.
  There are three facets to this as they outlined. No. 1 is redundant 
agencies. These are agencies targeted to do exactly the same thing that 
one administration or another has come in and added and that basically 
do the same things. That costs about $135 billion every year.
  Just since 2003, we spent $1.2 trillion in improper payments. That is 
about $144 billion every year. These are overpayments--improper 
payments. This is not fraud. This is not anything like that. It is 
basically an administrative error, where the Federal Government has 
made a mistake and made improper payments--Social Security Disability, 
SNAP overpayments, unemployment insurance, and others. This is 
outrageous.
  The third item is that it is estimated that we have a net tax gap of 
$406 billion. This is a 17-percent error rate in the IRS Tax Code. That 
means that people are underpaying or not paying what is calculated, 
according to the General Accountability Office. The Federal Government 
last year took in almost $3.5 trillion of taxes. Yet we had this $400 
billion. That is a 17-percent error rate. I don't know what else to 
say. Those three things add up to about $700 billion of wasted 
spending. We have to get to the bottom of this. Let me also put it in 
perspective another way. That $700 billion every year is $7 trillion 
over the next 10 years.
  This tax package we are talking about has an initial cost of about 
$1.5 trillion, as identified by both sides, before you get to the 
economic growth that more than pays for it. A 0.4 percent of growth 
pays for this tax package that we are working on. But this $7 trillion 
of wasted spending is overspending by the Federal Government, 
unnecessarily. Nobody in this body--no Democrat, Republican, or 
Independent--has voted on this spending. This is spending in error. 
These are just common mistakes made by an oversized bureaucracy. It is 
not a partisan talking point. Both sides bear responsibility in this 
debacle.
  Again, these are numbers from the nonpartisan Government 
Accountability Office. I am apoplectic that I even have to be here 
bringing this to the attention of my colleagues. Washington knows about 
these problems and has known for years--decades. Yet nothing is done. A 
former Member, Senator Tom Coburn, actually worked hard on this. There 
are others who are beginning to pick up this mantle here, as I am.

  But as we talk about the tax package changes--the tax changes that 
will get this economy growing again--I wanted us to reflect on the 
opportunity we have right here that can more than pay for what we need 
to do to give the middle class a tax break and get our economy growing 
again. There are things identified in this report by the Government 
Accountability Office. There are recommendations that can get at most 
of this $700 billion of wasted spending.
  Let me give you a couple of examples. If the Department of Defense 
just manages commissaries more effectively, there is a $2 billion 
opportunity there over the next 5 years. If the Department of Defense 
weapon acquisition programs were more effective, it is estimated that 
tens of billions of dollars over the next 10 years could be saved in 
terms of purchasing the same level of equipment and machinery. If the 
Department of Defense simply completed an audit, we believe it would 
identify further opportunities for wise spending of our taxpayers' 
money.
  But since coming to the United States Senate, I was shocked to 
understand that the largest line item on our budget has never been 
audited. It is high time that we complete that audit. By the way, there 
is a law that was passed in this body in 1991 requiring the Department 
of Defense to submit an audit. Here we are in 2017, and we still don't 
have that audit.
  In my opinion, as hard as it is for the American people to earn their 
salaries and to pay their taxes, it is unconscionable that I am 
standing before the U.S. Senate tonight reminding us all that there is 
$700 billion a year that we spend in error--just bureaucratic error. 
Because of that and because of this financial intransigence, we have 
built up a debt that has created a crisis in our country. Because of 
these years of fiscal intransigence, we are losing the ability to fund 
our government the way it should be funded.
  We are losing the right to do the right thing when it comes to 
funding things like emergencies and disaster relief efforts. Just a 
couple of weeks ago, we passed a $15 billion relief package for two 
hurricanes. Last week, we passed a $36 billion supplemental, as if 
nothing had happened. Every time we do that, it is borrowed money. We 
can wait no longer to solve this debt crisis. It is going to take tough 
decisions to solve the debt crisis, and we are going to have to be 
making these very quickly, but eliminating redundant spending, improper 
payments, and eliminating this tax gap are at the top of the list.
  Along with reducing our spending by almost 20 percent each year, we 
need to grow the economy to solve this debt crisis. The single most 
important thing that we can do to grow the economy this next year is to 
change this Tax Code.
  Let me remind this body that so far this year, under this President's 
guidance, we eliminated over 860 rules. These were rules made by the 
Federal Government that were choking the very life out of our free 
enterprise system. The result of that this year alone is that in the 
third quarter we have now achieved a 3-percent growth again. This is 
not the Holy Grail.
  Who knows what this economy should be growing at right now if we just 
get Washington out of the way? Part of the way to do that is to correct 
this archaic tax policy. Changing the Tax Code will mean more jobs and 
higher wages for the American worker. For example, if we eliminate the 
repatriation tax on our corporations--again, we are the last country in 
the world to have a double tax on U.S. profits made overseas--it is 
estimated by independent, nonpartisan groups, that this would mean 
$4,000 to $9,000 of annual income for the average worker in the United 
States.
  I don't know what else to tell you, except that we are not 
competitive today. We have to become more competitive. What we are 
talking about here should not be partisan issues. America needs to be 
competitive. We all know that.
  The idea that bigger government will create more jobs has been proven 
not to work. Look at the last 8 years. We have had the lowest economic 
growth in the history of the United States.
  As we debate how to fix this archaic tax system and become 
competitive with the rest of the world, I am reminding us tonight that 
we also need to get serious about cutting this wasteful spending. This 
spending is not benefiting anybody. It is not providing for national 
security. It is not taking care of people who need help. These are just 
simply overpayments, mispayments, and they are creating problems that 
should not have been created. Changing the Tax Code, as I said, is a 
historic opportunity to generate growth and make us more competitive. 
Eliminating this spending, which amounts to 20 percent of what we spend 
as a Federal Government, is absolutely mandatory. People back home 
should be demanding that.
  There is a lot of heavy lifting to dig out of this debt crisis, but 
these two things I am reminding us of tonight should be at the top of 
the list. We simply cannot fail the American people to get this done. I 
am committed to that.

[[Page S6910]]

I urge my colleagues to take seriously this opportunity we have of 
changing our Tax Code. It is historic. At the same time, we have to get 
serious about eliminating our redundant, outrageous, and unnecessary 
spending.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report the pending nomination.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of Joan 
Louise Larsen, of Michigan, to be United States Circuit Judge for the 
Sixth Circuit.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Maryland.
  Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President. I agree with my colleague from Georgia 
that we need to simplify our Tax Code. We need real tax reform. We have 
seen a lot of junk built up in the Tax Code over many years, put there 
by special interests that seek special deals for themselves--deals that 
are not enjoyed by the American public. We should do tax reform.
  What we should not do is increase our national debt and our national 
deficits, and we all know that the budget plan that passed this 
Senate--and just recently passed the House--has written right into it 
an increase in the national debt of $1.5 trillion over the next 10 
years. In other words, it is engineered right into that bill. So I hope 
our colleagues who really do care about reducing our national debt will 
make sure that, as we discuss this tax proposal, we do not increase our 
national debt.
  We should, of course, eliminate unnecessary and wasteful 
expenditures, but we should not have a tax proposal that increases our 
debt by $1.5 trillion and possibly more. As it appears now, that would 
primarily be done to provide big tax breaks to very wealthy people and 
big corporations, at the expense of everybody and everything else in 
the country.
  But we will have a fuller debate starting tomorrow when the House 
Ways and Means Committee unveils its proposal.


                 Temporary Protected Status Immigrants

  Mr. President, we have also had a pretty vigorous discussion in this 
body and around the country about the Dreamers. These are young people 
who were brought to the United States as kids. They have grown up 
knowing only America as their home. They pledge allegiance to our flag, 
and it is really important that in the coming months, we ensure that 
they have a secure home and place in the country. It is imperative that 
we address that issue soon because, of course, President Trump has 
started the clock ticking on their deportation early next year.
  But I come to the floor today to talk about another group of people 
who have not gotten much news coverage but really demand the attention 
of the country. That is the future of about 300,000 immigrants who came 
to the United States legally.
  They came here escaping horrific conditions in their home country--
conditions brought about by war, by earthquakes, and by other natural 
disasters. They came to the United States under a program called 
Temporary Protected Status or TPS. It is a humanitarian program that 
says, if you are fleeing a country because of one of these horrific 
conditions, during that short period of time, you can legally come to 
the United States.
  For example, Liberia was granted TPS status because of the Ebola 
crisis. Some Liberians came to the United States to seek refuge and 
were granted legal status here under that humanitarian program. Haiti 
was granted TPS status after the 2010 earthquake, which killed over 
300,000 Haitians. El Salvador was also granted TPS status because of a 
devastating earthquake that took place in El Salvador. So these are 
individuals who came to the country legally under this program to grant 
protection to people who are fleeing devastating situations. Many of 
these TPS individuals have been in the United States for over 20 years 
now. They are small business men and women. They are homeowners. They 
are contributing to our communities and to our economy.
  The reason I am raising this issue today is that 5 days from now, 
next week, the Department of Homeland Security will announce whether 
they will continue to allow these individuals to stay in this country, 
individuals who came here with this protected status, individuals who 
came here legally, individuals who, in many cases, have been here 20 
years or more. In 5 days the Department of Homeland Security will 
decide whether individuals who came here from El Salvador and Honduras 
and then made their home here--whether they can stay or whether they 
will be subject to deportation early next year. The decision by DHS on 
Haitians who came here under the protected status program is due on 
November 23.
  I think we can all see that while this matter has not hit the 
headlines yet, it will soon be grabbing more attention around the 
country.
  I come to the floor today to call upon President Trump and to call 
upon Acting Secretary Duke to make the right call and to make the 
humane call to allow these individuals to stay in the United States. 
They are hard-working people who have been playing by the rules.
  Let me share the story of Norma Herrera and Miguel Espinal, who fled 
Honduras back in 1998. Seeking a better life, they fled after Hurricane 
Mitch. The United States decided that the hurricane was so severe and 
that it had such catastrophic humanitarian consequences that we should 
create that little window of time when people could come here legally. 
They applied, and they were granted protected status. They have worked 
very hard to build and create the American dream in Riverdale, MD. They 
have a 14-year-old son, Miguel Junior. He is a freshman at Don Bosco 
Cristo Rey High School in Takoma Park. Unfortunately, their son now 
lives in fear that if the Trump administration doesn't extend that 
protected status next month, his parents could be deported to Honduras 
early next year. In other words, if TPS is not extended for Hondurans 
and others from those other countries, they will be in the same 
position.
  Jose Ramos is a TPS resident who owns his own freight company and has 
his own home. He is actually a job creator. He employs other people in 
our community. The question is whether he will be allowed to stay.
  I want to emphasize that in order to continue under the TPS status, 
these individuals have to be vetted every 6 to 18 months to make sure 
that they are here working and that they are law-abiding. The 
statistics overwhelmingly show that these are exactly the kinds of 
people we want to have in the United States helping in our communities 
and helping build jobs. For example, 94 percent of the men and 82 
percent of the women are working, and they have provided community 
services as well. In fact, many of these individuals are helping 
provide hurricane relief down in Texas.
  So I come to the floor today simply to urge our colleagues to call 
upon the President and the Trump administration to make the right 
decision with respect to these individuals who, No. 1, came to the 
United States legally, under a humanitarian program; No. 2, go through 
a periodic vetting process to ensure that they are playing by all the 
rules; and No. 3, in many cases they have been here as long as 20 
years, have built small businesses, are living in our communities, and 
have children who are American citizens.
  I call upon all of us to ask the administration to make the right 
decision next week so that these people who have contributed to our 
communities and to our country are allowed to stay and not be subject 
to deportation early next year.
  Let's do the right thing for our country. Let's make sure that we 
continue to allow these individuals who have played by the rules and 
who have come here legally to stay and continue to contribute to our 
country.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Florida.
  Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to speak as in 
morning business.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                               Tax Reform

  Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, tomorrow the House will announce its plan 
for tax reform as a starting point. I doubt everybody here will agree 
with everything that is in it, but I imagine we will find a lot of good 
in it, and it will be a good starting point for this debate. But it 
actually is about a broader

[[Page S6911]]

topic that I hope will be a part of our conversation about tax reform 
because it hasn't been enough of a part of our national discourse over 
the last 20 years.
  When we think about the history of this country, one of the things 
that truly distinguishes us is not that we have rich people. Every 
country in the world has rich people. We have an extraordinary amount 
of success. We have earned success in this country, and we celebrate 
it; we don't criticize it. But every society in the world has rich 
people.
  Sadly, we are also not the only country that has people who are poor, 
who are struggling. That is something that challenges our principles, 
as a nation founded on the idea of equal opportunity to life, liberty, 
and the pursuit of happiness. But the one thing that really 
distinguishes America is that, by and large, the overwhelming number of 
Americans do not consider themselves to be either rich or poor; they 
consider themselves to be hard-working people. We can come up with any 
term we want, whether it is middle class or working class, but these 
are basically people who work hard every single day to provide not just 
a better life for themselves--to be able to retire with dignity and 
leave their children better off than themselves. They take pride in 
that. What they value is not how much money they make or how many 
things they own; it isn't even the title of the job. They value the 
dignity that comes from the work they do, and, more importantly, they 
value what it allows them to do, and it is not complicated things. It 
allows them to own a home in a neighborhood that is safe--not a 
mansion, but a home. We see that every weekend. People spend countless 
hours to constantly keep up the home that they take great pride in, and 
they take great pride in their children and their churches and their 
synagogues and their religious organizations and the voluntary groups 
that they belong to. This has been the fundamental core of our country.
  That does not mean that others who do not fit that profile are not 
important to the country, as well, but it is what distinguishes us 
because most countries in the world don't really have that. In most 
societies in human history, you are either rich or poor. There are a 
lot of poor people and a handful of people in whom all of the wealth is 
concentrated. That sort of dynamic is what has separated us from the 
rest of the nations on Earth and, to this day, in many ways still does.
  This is something I talk about not because I read about it or because 
I saw a documentary about it last weekend, but because, in many ways, I 
lived it. My parents were that. Neither one had much of an advanced 
education. I don't know how far my dad went in school--probably not 
beyond third or fourth grade; my mom, perhaps not much more than that. 
They actually came to this country and barely spoke any English when 
they arrived. They had to struggle to learn it, but they did. They 
ended up being a bartender and a maid. People who know me or who have 
heard me speak before know that story. It is one I tell not because I 
want you to know more about me but because I want you to understand 
what motivates me in public policy.
  Even though my dad worked in the service sector his entire life and 
my mother did as well, they owned a home and they retired with dignity. 
All four of their kids went to college. That was possible through 
a combination of things: jobs that paid enough and the ability to have 
programs like Social Security and Medicare that allowed them to retire 
with dignity--programs they paid into all of the years they were 
working.

  The reason I raise this is that people who fit that profile have been 
hurt more than anyone else over the last 15 to 20 years. It is not 
necessarily anyone's fault. The economy has changed. For example, the 
jobs my parents once did don't pay nearly enough to afford today what 
they could afford back then. As a bartender and a maid today--if my 
parents were doing that now, I am not sure what house they would buy in 
Miami-Dade County, where I live. I am not sure they would be able to 
buy one anywhere near where we live now, not because our neighborhood 
is some fancy place but because everything costs so much compared to 
how much those jobs paid then.
  So everything costs more, the jobs aren't paying enough, and then 
they were hit with the recession. That is just the nature of changes in 
our economy. Many people lost their jobs altogether. The industry they 
were once in vanished. It went to another country or machines took 
their place or they just don't need as many people as they used to 
because they are able to do more with fewer employees.
  Then they were hit with this recession, and it really hit them badly. 
Maybe it wiped out their retirement savings; it cut in half the value 
of their home, the most important investment they have, and to this day 
they haven't fully recovered.
  Then you add to all of that the idea that in American politics today, 
we spend an extraordinary amount of time debating how we can help 
everyone else except for them. I don't think we do that on purpose or 
that people around here don't care about people like that. I don't know 
why it happens; I am just telling you that it has.
  The result is somewhat of a little bit of resentment, but certainly 
there is a sense of isolation and the notion and the belief that they 
have been left behind. They are upset about it, and they have a right 
to be. It is not just about money, and it is not just about economics; 
it is about the values of hard work and dignity and responsibility and 
doing what you need to do to be a good citizen of this country and 
contribute to its future but also doing what you need to do to raise 
your family and instill in them the values you think are important.
  I think it would be a terrible mistake to enter into tax reform--
perhaps one of the most meaningful public policy debates we will have 
had in this city, certainly in the time I have been here and perhaps 
for the better part of two to three decades in terms of our economy--
without in any way talking about what tax reform means for the millions 
of Americans I just described. The one thing it should mean is that for 
those jobs that have left, some of them should be able to come back 
because, frankly, our own policies have forced some of those jobs to go 
somewhere else. When other countries are making it easier to open up 
factories and create jobs over there instead of over here, we are going 
to lose some of those jobs. I am not saying all of them were a result 
of that, but a lot of them were. If we have tax policies, as we do, 
that do not allow us to compete and create those jobs here, we have to 
reverse that.
  Tax reform should be about that, but it also has to be about working 
Americans--not Americans who are rich and can hire fancy accountants 
and lawyers and even lobbyists to help them create special tax 
statuses. I am not talking about Americans who are depending on 
government programs. I am not talking about disability or Medicare or 
Social Security--programs they have paid into; I am not talking about 
programs that assist anti-poverty programs--a whole other topic that we 
should talk about one day because some of them aren't working the way 
we hoped they would in terms of helping people escape poverty. I am 
talking about people who work and they make just enough to not qualify 
for any of that stuff but not nearly enough to afford the cost of 
living. That is just them. You add to that the cost of raising those 
children. It is more expensive to raise kids today than ever before, 
and the costs keep going up, and the paychecks are not keeping pace.
  There is nothing we can do in tax reform by itself that solves all of 
those problems, but there is no way we can do tax reform without 
addressing the millions of Americans who feel as though every time 
there is a debate in Washington, it is about helping everyone else 
except for them.
  Take, for example, the issue of the child tax credit, which is called 
the child tax credit, but it really is about helping families--parents 
and children. Take, for example, a married couple with two children. 
Let's say one of them works in a warehouse and the other one is a home 
health aide. These are not unusual jobs to find in the economy.
  Let's say, based on the Bureau of Labor Statistics, their annual 
income combined is going to be around $55,000 a year. Depending on 
where you live--that is not a lot of money probably

[[Page S6912]]

anywhere in the country, and it certainly isn't a lot of money where I 
am standing now or where I am living now in Miami. If we do the whole 
framework on tax reform but do nothing on the child tax credit and 
leave it as it is, that couple making $55,000 with two children--if we 
do nothing--they are going to have a tax increase of $738. I cannot 
imagine a single person here voting for a tax reform package that does 
nothing on the child tax credit and thereby raises taxes on a couple 
making $55,000 a year with two children by a penny, not to mention $700 
a year.
  What if we do a little less, as some people are suggesting? Let's 
just raise the tax credit to $500, but let's not make it refundable 
against payroll tax. They will get a tax cut of about $263. When you 
compare that to some of the tax cuts we are going to see in other parts 
of this tax reform, I would say that is not nearly enough, certainly 
not enough to make a difference.
  But what if you do this: What if we double the value of the tax 
credit from $1,000 to $2,000 and make it refundable toward payroll tax? 
That couple with those two children will have a tax cut of $1,263. That 
doesn't solve all of their problems, but it makes a difference.
  I can give other examples. Others we will get to in the weeks to come 
and the days to come, but let's just take a family like the one I grew 
up in--a bartender and a maid. The median income of the bartender and 
the maid is about $42,000, $43,000 a year. They have three children. 
Without anything in the child tax credit--we just leave it the way it 
is and do the framework--they are going to pay $1,276 more in taxes. 
Can you imagine a tax reform plan that raises taxes on a bartender and 
a maid with three children, making $43,000 a year, and it raises their 
taxes by almost $1,300 a year? Who here is going to vote for that? I 
dare you. You won't. Actually, I don't dare you. I don't want you to 
vote for that. That is not what we are going to do.
  So let's just do this symbolic thing: Raise it by $500 and make it 
nonrefundable. They will get a tax cut of about the same--$233. You 
might as well keep it because it won't make any difference. But what if 
we doubled the value of the child tax credit and made it refundable 
toward payroll tax. Then, their tax cut is $1,733. That is a tax cut. 
That is the direction we have to go.

  I have heard some people say we shouldn't make it refundable to 
payroll tax because that is just more people who aren't paying anything 
in taxes. They are talking about the income tax. That is the way people 
here talk and think. That is the way economists think and the way 
accountants might think. But for the people who work and get a paycheck 
every week or every two weeks, when they get that paycheck, it shows 
that money came out of their paycheck. It doesn't matter if that money 
went into income tax or payroll tax; that is money they earned that you 
took away, using the power of government. They are paying taxes. 
Whether they are paying income tax or payroll tax, they are paying 
taxes. If you want to help people who are working but who don't make 
enough, then the only way--and they are trying to raise a family--the 
child tax credit is the best way to do it.
  So as we move forward, I truly hope that some of these voices I hear, 
treating the child tax credit as some sort of welfare program or 
giveaway or gimmick, well, reconsider that attitude. Reconsider that 
attitude because the child tax credit applies only to families who are 
working, who make less than a certain amount of money, and who are 
raising children, our future taxpayers.
  I am going to ask this: If our Tax Code does not help working 
families, given all the other challenges they face, how--that is 
inexcusable. How can we pass tax reform that is loaded up on how we are 
going to help the business sector--and it should, because it creates 
jobs and it will have higher pay down the road and billions upon 
billions of dollars to help the poor--but do nothing for the backbone 
of our economy, the one thing we all say that we take extraordinary 
pride in, the working class, the working people of this country? There 
is no way we can have a tax plan that doesn't do those things--no way. 
If we do head in that direction, that will convince millions of 
Americans that they were right all along, that the people in charge of 
this country, in both parties, and the people who advise them don't 
care about, look down on, and have no idea about what life is like for 
people like them, who work hard every day, who seek nothing from the 
government other than a fair chance. That is all they want.
  All I am advocating for is that we allow them to keep more of their 
own money so that they can provide for their families and a better 
future and rebuild those working-class values and that working-class 
backbone that I believe are what has made America so great.
  I look forward to continuing to work in this direction. We better do 
something real, and we better do it right; otherwise, I don't know how 
we pass tax reform. I am hopeful that is where we are headed. I know we 
still have some work to do, and I know tomorrow is only a starting 
point. But I will repeat, once again, any tax plan that doesn't cut 
taxes for working families with children is not one worth supporting. I 
hope that is the direction in which we will move.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Hawaii.
  Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, the American people depend on the Federal 
judiciary to be fair and unbiased. A judge should decide a case based 
on the facts at hand and the law, not in service of a particular 
ideology.
  Over the past 9 months, I have been deeply concerned that President 
Trump is nominating judges to lifetime appointments on the Federal 
bench, people who share his ideology rather than judges who apply the 
law fairly and follow precedent. President Trump has made his ideology 
very clear during his first months in office: He is anti-immigrant, 
anti-union, anti-worker, and anti-woman. He prioritizes the interests 
of corporations over the rights of individuals. I am not often given to 
hyperbole, but in this case I am so alarmed by Donald Trump's nominees 
to the Federal bench that calling them extreme is not extreme.
  Congress has a constitutional obligation, through advice and consent, 
to fight back against these types of appointments. This is particularly 
important for circuit court judges, but under Republican leadership, 
the Senate is shirking its responsibilities. Too often, we are forced 
to consider too many judges at one hearing.
  The Judiciary Committee has already had nearly as many hearings with 
two circuit court nominees on the hearing agenda in 9 months as the 
Obama administration had in 8 years. Sometimes they even add district 
court and Department of Justice nominees to an already crammed hearing 
agenda. That is not right. Each circuit court nominee should be 
considered in a separate hearing.
  There was a time when there was consensus that controversial nominees 
needed more scrutiny. Apparently, this President is sending us who he 
deems the best and the greatest nominees, and we are supposed to trust 
him that they will safeguard our rights and treat all Americans fairly. 
In short, this I cannot do.
  The Senate Judiciary Committee has an obligation to vigorously vet 
and question these nominees, and we expect them to be honest, candid, 
and complete in their replies. We have had a number of very frustrating 
exchanges so far at these nomination hearings.
  On several occasions, nominees have disavowed direct quotes of their 
past writings and comments, even when members of the committee repeat 
them word-for-word and follow up with specifics to the contrary. 
Sometimes the nominees will acknowledge their past statements, but they 
think we are naive enough to believe them when they say that, if 
confirmed, they will ``follow precedent.''
  Give me a break. As circuit court judges, they will be involved in 
setting or rewriting precedent if the judge goes in that direction--
which a judge could very well do. Some have even written that they 
think that is what lower court judges are permitted to do. I am talking 
about district court judges.


                      Confirmation of Amy Barrett

  Just a short time ago, the Senate narrowly voted to confirm a nominee 
who would apply her own ideology to the decisions she makes rather than 
the law or precedent, and this nominee is Amy Coney Barrett.
  As a professor at the University of Notre Dame Law School, Ms. 
Barrett's

[[Page S6913]]

scholarly writings reveal a nominee who questions the need to follow 
precedent and who outlines specific conditions under which a judge does 
not have an obligation to follow precedent.
  In a Texas Law Review article entitled ``Precedent and 
Jurisprudential Disagreement'' she wrote: ``I tend to agree with those 
who say that a justice's duty is to the Constitution and that it is 
thus more legitimate for her to enforce her best understanding of the 
Constitution rather than a precedent she thinks clearly in conflict 
with it.''
  In a University of Colorado Law Review article, ``Stare Decisis and 
Due Process,'' she wrote that the ``rigid application'' of stare 
decisis ``unconstitutionally deprives the litigant of the right to a 
hearing on the merits of her claim.''
  In a third piece, ``Statutory Stare Decisis'' in the Courts of 
Appeal, published in the George Washington Law Review, she goes 
further, saying: ``Whatever the merits of statutory stare decisis in 
the Supreme Court, the inferior courts have no sound basis for 
following the Supreme Court's practice.''
  Her lack of respect for stare decisis is deeply disconcerting and 
raises serious concerns about her future conduct on the court, if 
confirmed.
  Professor Barrett has also expressed a number of highly controversial 
political positions that could influence her ability to fairly hear and 
decide the cases that come before her.
  In criticizing the Supreme Court's ruling upholding the Affordable 
Care Act, for example, she wrote that Chief Justice Roberts had 
``pushed the Affordable Care Act beyond its plausible meaning to save 
the statute.''
  Her views on the rights of detainees are similarly disconcerting. In 
2008, the Supreme Court held that non-U.S. citizens held at Guantanamo 
Bay were entitled to file habeas corpus petitions to challenge their 
detentions. She argued in turn that the Court's decision in that case 
was ``contrary to precedent and unsupported by the Constitution's 
text'' and that the dissenters ``had the better of the argument.''
  During her confirmation hearing, Professor Barrett ignored or 
deflected with nonanswers the concerns I and my colleagues raised about 
her past statements, beliefs, and judicial philosophy. Instead of 
addressing what she wrote head-on, Professor Barrett denied she was 
trying to overturn precedent and insisted she would follow the law. Her 
writings raise serious concerns to the contrary.
  Unfortunately, Professor Barrett's nomination is not the only one we 
will consider this week.
  Before I vote in favor of a lifetime appointment to a Federal court, 
I should be able to conclude that the nominee in question would rule 
without bias or obvious ideology. Amy Barrett's answers and record made 
it impossible for me to draw such a conclusion regarding her 
nomination.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Mississippi.


                 Building and Sustaining a Larger Navy

  Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, over the past year, our Navy has had four 
serious mishaps at sea, including fatal collisions involving the USS 
Fitzgerald on one occasion and the USS John S. McCain on another. In 
the McCain and Fitzgerald accidents, 17 of our sailors were killed.
  In response to these serious incidents, the Chief of Naval 
Operations, ADM John Richardson, directed the comprehensive review take 
place. Today, the Senate Armed Services Committee was briefed on the 
results of this comprehensive review. The results will be made public 
either tomorrow or the next day, and Americans will be able to see the 
serious situation we are in.
  There are various reasons for these collisions and these fatalities, 
including, regrettably, human error and unfortunate circumstances, but, 
also, the review makes it clear that we are not doing right by our 
sailors, we are not doing right by the Navy, and we are not doing right 
by the taxpayers, in terms of making sure these brave men and women 
have what they need.
  We need to work quickly with the Navy here in Congress to implement 
the recommendations that will be coming forward later this week. We 
need to enhance training and readiness, and we need to recognize--and I 
think the majority of this Senate does recognize--that the size of the 
fleet has contributed to the problems.
  Simply put, we need to acknowledge that the Navy has a supply-and-
demand problem. We have a demand for more naval action than the supply 
of our ships can produce. Our ship force has declined recently by some 
20 percent. We are asking too few ships to do too many things for 
American security, and that needs to be rectified.
  The consequences of this supply-and-demand mismatch were summed up by 
naval analysts Robert C. O'Brien and Jerry Hendrix in a recent National 
Review online article. They argue that the Navy is on the precipice of 
a ``death spiral,'' wherein more overworked and damaged ships place an 
increasingly greater strain on the remaining operational ships, thus 
eroding readiness across the fleet.
  I agree with Mr. O'Brien and Mr. Hendrix that this situation will 
result in ``more collisions, more injuries, and more deaths in the 
fleet.'' To avoid this death spiral, we need to commit to growing the 
Navy and meeting its minimum requirement of 355 ships.
  I have the privilege of chairing the Seapower Subcommittee, which has 
held a series of oversight activities, both classified and 
unclassified, on the Navy's 355 ship requirement. We have examined the 
security environment that drives the requirement to add about 80 more 
ships to the fleet. We have listened to Navy leadership, outside 
experts, and industry on options, capabilities, and considerations. We 
received perspective from the key players behind President Reagan's 
naval buildup in the 1980s.
  As the Fitzgerald and McCain collisions have demonstrated, the short-
term costs of ``doing more with less'' are simply unacceptable. The 
long-term implications will prove devastating to American power and the 
global order it underpins.
  The U.S. military's commanders have identified 18 maritime regions 
where the Navy must secure American interests. Our current naval 
strategy is designed to command the seas in those regions. The Navy 
needs a minimum of 355 ships to get this done.
  If the Navy cannot get the bare minimum it needs, then our naval 
strategy must change--and, I can assure you, it would be a change for 
the worse. Instead of a global command of the seas, what we would get 
would be a new, weaker strategy.
  What would this look like? In the National Review article I 
previously mentioned, authors O'Brien and Hendrix lay out two 
alternatives. Neither one of them are pretty.
  First, the Navy could strategically withdraw from certain maritime 
regions and hope our allies and partners will pick up the slack. Let 
Norway, Denmark, and Canada patrol the Arctic; let the Baltic States, 
Poland and Germany, patrol the Baltic Sea; let Turkey, Romania, and 
Bulgaria patrol the Black Sea. Really? Let Taiwan, the Philippines, and 
Malaysia patrol the South Sea China--and hope for the best or we could 
return to the pre-World War II unacceptable surge and exercise model. 
This strategy involved consolidating a smaller fleet into a few 
strategic hubs, deploying occasionally for exercises, and greatly 
reducing the number of missions the Navy could perform in peacetime and 
in crisis.
  In their article, O'Brien and Hendrix note that these two strategies 
``make the past eight years of `lead from behind' look like an 
assertive foreign policy.'' These two strategies would create dangerous 
power vacuums and shifting allegiances. Our adversaries would use the 
Navy's absence to rewrite the rules of global commons. Our allies would 
accommodate challengers to the American-led order. Abandoned by 
America, in some cases, they would have no choice but to cut deals with 
Beijing, Moscow, and Tehran.
  I know my colleagues in Congress want a different future. In fact, I 
am hopeful we can take the first steps this year toward building up the 
fleet. As former Navy Secretary John Lehman told our subcommittee this 
year, President Reagan ``reaped 90 percent of the benefits of his 
rebuilding program . . . in the first year.'' This took place in the 
early 1980s and made clear that President Reagan, Congress, and the 
Pentagon were serious about rebuilding the fleet. It sent a signal to 
our allies and to the Soviets that America and

[[Page S6914]]

our Navy was coming back in a big way, which makes 2017 and 2018 so 
important. I am confident Congress can establish a firm foundation in 
the coming months for a fleet buildup.
  To that end, I would note that both the House and Senate Defense 
authorization bills contain the Wicker-Wittman SHIPS Act, which would 
establish a 355-ship requirement as our national policy. Both bills 
also contain multiyear procurement authority for Virginia-class attack 
submarines and Arleigh Burke-class destroyers. Multiyear procurement 
will stabilize the industrial base for those ships and generate 
billions in savings, which would be plowed into more shipbuilding. Both 
bills contain cost-control measures to protect taxpayers. Although 
negotiations are ongoing, the final NDAA conference report should 
include the SHIPS Act, multiyear procurement, and acquisition cost 
controls.
  The Defense authorization bill is a good start, but Congress also 
needs to add funding for shipbuilding in upcoming appropriations 
legislation. We need an agreement that eliminates the Budget Control 
Act with regard to defense spending or at least provides relief.
  The bottom line is that a buildup will require more funding. 
President Reagan's first defense budget included a 35-percent increase 
for the Navy compared to President Carter's last proposed budget, and 
it was well worth it. More resources are needed to accelerate 
shipbuilding. It is time to end the two decades of low-rate 
shipbuilding that has brought us to this point. Compared to its earlier 
planned levels, the Navy's Accelerated Fleet Plan concludes that the 
shipyards can produce 29 more ships over the next 7 years. Investment 
is needed--particularly in submarine facilities--but the yards are up 
to the challenge, especially those with hot production lines.
  I was disappointed to hear that Acting Under Secretary Thomas Dee, an 
Obama holdover still in the Department of the Navy, said last week that 
355 ships is probably out of reach until the 2050s. Mr. Dee's pessimism 
about the Navy's own requirement is perplexing, when it is incumbent on 
the Navy to develop fleet buildup options within budget constraints. 
Those current and likely future physical environments were accounted 
for in the Navy's 2016 Force Structure Assessment of 355 ships. So we 
can do it, and the leadership of the Navy, with the exception of Under 
Secretary Dee, knows we can do it.
  CNO Richardson's white paper on the future Navy notes that we ought 
to achieve a 355-ship fleet in the 2020s--not the 2040s, not the 2050s, 
but the 2020s. Thank goodness for the foresight and positive attitude 
of the Chief of Naval Operations. He is right--a 355-ship fleet should 
be our goal for the next decade. Regrettably, Acting Under Secretary 
Dee must have been asleep for the last 9 months while Congress was 
talking about this and while we were on the verge of enacting 
legislation making a 355-ship Navy the official policy of the United 
States of America.
  Shipbuilding is indeed a long process, and a 355-ship fleet will not 
happen overnight. New ship construction is critical to achieve this 
objective, but the Navy should also examine service life extension 
programs for older ships and perhaps even reactivating ships in the 
Ready Reserve. It is irresponsible to retire ships early if they have 
useful life. Such ships may have to be reassigned to less stressing 
missions, but they should not be prematurely sold overseas or sunk as 
target practice. It is equally irresponsible to miss opportunities to 
reactivate retired ships if the benefits exceed the cost. Let's at 
least look at that.
  The Senate Defense authorization bill includes my amendment directing 
the Navy to look at service life extension and reactivation. The Navy 
needs to go ship by ship through the inventory and provide Congress 
with a thorough analysis of these options, and that is what the Navy is 
doing.
  As O'Brien and Hendrix write, ``Navies and international influence go 
hand in hand.'' A smaller Navy means a smaller role for America, and we 
can't afford that. We must cultivate the national will to avoid this 
fate.
  I urge my colleagues to help me, to help the Armed Services 
Committees in both Houses in an effort to begin rebuilding our naval 
power at once.
  Mr. President, I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Rubio). The Senator from Oregon.
  Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, there are few things we do here in the 
Senate that matter more or have longer lasting impacts on our Nation 
than confirming individuals to lifetime appointments in district 
courts, circuit courts, and the Supreme Court.
  It is the Senate's duty, as Alexander Hamilton laid out in the 
Federalist Papers, to ``prevent the appointment of unfit characters.'' 
Hamilton thought that this power would be used rarely because a 
President would seek to make sure that he or she sent qualified 
individuals to the Senate for confirmation, but we are seeing something 
quite different today. We are seeing the President engaged in a zeal to 
pack the court with extreme rightwing ideologues and to ram them 
through this confirmation process without due review.
  Just yesterday, the American Bar Association sent a letter to the 
Judiciary Committee saying that Leonard Grasz, President Trump's 
nominee to the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals, is not qualified to 
serve as a Federal judge. Yet his confirmation hearing is scheduled for 
this week.
  Putting extreme and unqualified people on the court is a disservice 
to America's judiciary. It will impact the protection of fundamental 
American rights for generations to come. It is critical for us, 
therefore, to have a conversation about what is going on at this 
moment.
  Just this week, we have four nominees for the court of appeals coming 
to the floor. Amy Barrett was confirmed just hours ago. There is 
another vote scheduled for tomorrow. These individuals, as I will go 
through in a moment, don't come here with the types of qualifications 
that really should allow them to be considered for lifetime 
appointments.
  Time and time again, we have heard from our Republican leadership 
that Democrats are engaged in a massive, ``often-mindless partisan 
obstruction,'' in the words of the majority leader. From where comes 
this evaluation? Well, he wants to move judiciary nominees faster, 
without due consideration. And certainly he does know something about 
obstructing judicial nominations since he spent the entire 8 years of 
the Obama administration leading the effort to obstruct consideration 
of nominees here in this Chamber.
  Eighty percent of President Obama's nominees waited 181 days or 
longer. That is certainly far more than under President George Bush, 
President Clinton, the first President Bush, or President Reagan--
obstruction taken to the maximum, 6 months or longer to work their way 
through the confirmation process.
  Throughout President Obama's entire 8 years in office, just 55 
circuit court judges were confirmed. That is the lowest number for any 
President. And by this point in the previous administration--in the 
Obama administration--just one nominee had been confirmed for a spot on 
the circuit court. But here we are taking a look at how in this time 
period just one had been confirmed for Obama, but we will have, at the 
end of this week--assuming each individual gets the full majority--
eight circuit court nominees confirmed. That is one for Obama and eight 
for President Trump. That number wasn't reached substantially into 
President Obama's second year in office.
  We can look at the average number of days that it has taken from 
committee report to confirmation for the first seven nominees. 
President Trump's first seven circuit and district court nominees 
waited 37 days for confirmation once they were reported out of the 
Judiciary Committee. Let's compare that to President Obama, where the 
Judiciary Committee held them up for 75 days. So once again Democrats 
in the minority are moving far, far faster to date than did our 
colleagues when President Obama was in office. Certainly by comparison, 
President Trump's nominees are sailing through at a rapid pace.
  So let's not hear any more about the preposterous false news coming 
from the majority side about things being slowed down when the facts 
are quite the opposite. But why this emphasis on

[[Page S6915]]

creating this false narrative? Perhaps it is because right now there is 
a lot of pressure on the majority to show that they are getting 
something done, and not much is happening that will help anyone in this 
country. They tried to get something done by trying to strip healthcare 
from 20 to 30 million Americans in 5 different versions of the 
TrumpCare monster. They didn't quite get it done, thankfully. And I 
doubt that the American people--in fact, I know that they certainly 
would not have been appreciative of the bill in which my Republican 
colleagues said: Let's strip all this healthcare away from 20 to 30 
million people so we can give massive, multitrillion-dollar tax 
benefits, tax giveaways to the very richest Americans.
  Wow. That is certainly not a way to win the hearts and minds of 
Americans--attack working Americans time after time in order to deliver 
the National Treasury to the very richest Americans. Perhaps my 
colleagues will be glad they didn't succeed in that effort.
  Now there is a tax plan on the floor--a tax plan being considered 
that will once again take $1.5 trillion out of healthcare to deliver 
several trillion dollars to the richest 1 percent of Americans. We see 
it time and time again--attack working Americans to deliver incredible 
gifts from the National Treasury--really a raid on Fort Knox. Has ever 
such an audacious theft been considered previously in U.S. history than 
the theft that my colleagues are trying to perpetuate both through the 
healthcare strategy and now through this tax strategy?
  But there is a bigger purpose at work here, and that is a goal to 
rewrite the vision of our Constitution. Our Constitution has this 
incredibly powerful, meaningful vision of government of, by, and for 
the people, but my colleagues don't like that vision, and they decided 
that the best way to change it is to put people onto the court who like 
a different vision--government of, by, and for the privileged and the 
powerful. We saw it in their healthcare bill, we see it in their tax 
bill, and now we are seeing it in their nomination strategy to the 
court--a GOP agenda that will tip the scales of justice to favor the 
powerful and privileged over working Americans; judges who want to 
legislate from the bench on behalf of the powerful; judges who want to 
legislate from the bench on behalf of the privileged, who want to 
support predatory consumer practices, who want to strip away individual 
rights of women to determine their own healthcare, who want to deny a 
fair day in court by allowing binding arbitration where the seller of 
the services gets to pick and pay for the judge. Judges, rather than 
pursuing neutrality, are pursuing government for the powerful--that is 
the radical rightwing agenda attack on working America.
  We should do all that we can to stop it, including having opposition 
in this Chamber.


                     Nomination of Stephanos Bibas

  This week, we will have Stephanos Bibas, President Trump's nominee to 
the Third Circuit Court of Appeals, who believes that overincarceration 
in our jails has nothing to do with race or with mandatory minimums 
despite all of the research and data that show otherwise.
  He takes on and disagrees with the experts on medical care, who 
understand the fundamentals of addiction. He says, simply, though drug 
addiction is painted as a disease that requires medical intervention, 
all of that is unnecessary. Drug addicts can just stop using drugs. If 
only it were that easy. He has such a profound misunderstanding of the 
basic healthcare issue. Person after person after person on both sides 
of this aisle has come to say that opioid addiction is an addiction 
that needs medical treatment; yet he is a nominee who does not 
understand any of that.
  He also believes that when it comes to legal sentences, corporal 
punishment should be applied that is ``public, shameful, and painful.'' 
Perhaps the understanding of rare and unusual punishment was something 
missing in his legal education.
  Let's look at his 2 years as a prosecutor in the Southern District of 
New York--the notable case of United States v. Williams, which the New 
York Times described at the time as a ``legal legend in the making.'' 
They did not say that because of its being a wise or insightful 
decision. He was working as a prosecutor, and he wanted to really go 
after the little guy.
  He used his position to marshal prosecutorial, law enforcement, and 
court resources to bring charges against a cashier at a veterans 
hospital who had been accused of stealing $7--not $7,000, not $700,000, 
and not the $700 million or $1 billion being laundered by a big bank 
but the accusation of a cashier who had stolen $7. Stealing is never 
acceptable and never appropriate, but it did not matter that the 
cashier maintained that she had given the seven crinkled $1 bills that 
she had straightened out or that the security cameras did not show her 
pocketing them or that the customer who was right there saw it and 
stated that she was innocent. It did not matter. None of those facts 
mattered. He wanted to go after the little guy rather than go after the 
big folks who steal us blind.
  The morning of the trial comes around, and a detective testifies that 
he found those seven $1 bills in the cash register, just as the 
customer had stated. Meanwhile, this nominee saw fit to spend huge 
amounts of Federal resources in going after an individual who, by every 
form of testimony, had not committed a crime in the first place. It is 
easy to go after the little people, and if you believe in government by 
and for the powerful and the privileged, as these nominees do, then 
that is your mission in life--to go after the little people. Yet she 
lost out because, even though she was innocent, she lost her job due to 
her prosecution.
  Then there is Joan Larsen, who is the President's nominee for the 
Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals, a nominee who was added at the last 
moment to another circuit court nominee's confirmation hearing, which 
was against the Senate's practices and against minority opposition. Why 
do you add someone at the last moment? It is to ensure that the 
committee does not have enough time to adequately review her record. 
That is always a cause for suspicion--someone is changing the procedure 
so that a person's record cannot be reviewed before the committee sits 
down to the hearing.
  This is probably fitting with Ms. Larsen's long-held disdain for the 
legislative branch. She coauthored a law review article that stressed 
the importance of protecting the President from Congress, she said, 
``the most dangerous branch of government.''
  She goes on to denigrate the use of committees in Congress. She says 
that Congress has maintained an extensive, costly, extra-constitutional 
network of committees that watch over the work of Cabinet departments 
because ``the ambition and love of power of our Senators and 
Representatives caused them to lust after the patronage and media glory 
that a committee post could bring.''
  Is there any deeper or more profound misunderstanding of the 
committee process here in Congress? Does she have any idea that the 
reason we have committees is that there are complex topics? As 
President Trump said: Who knew healthcare could be so complicated? So 
you have a committee of members that specializes in that effort, that 
learns the details so that it can fairly consider the ideas for 
legislation. It has very little to do with ambition and a love of power 
and a lusting after patronage. There really is not patronage on a 
committee. We, the members, do not hire the staff.
  With her being someone with such a profound misunderstanding of the 
branches of government, why do my colleagues say that they want her in 
there? Is it because of this vision of a government that is by and for 
the powerful that takes on the little people, beats them up, squeezes 
them dry, and delivers the benefits to the richest in our society on 
every single issue--on healthcare, on taxes, on judicial appointments?


                       Nomination of Allison Eid

  Then we have Allison Eid, President Trump's nominee for the Tenth 
Circuit Court of Appeals. She holds the seat that was previously held 
by Neil Gorsuch before a seat was stolen from one administration and 
delivered to the next for the first time in U.S. history--a complete 
denigration of the integrity of this body and the legitimacy of the 
Court, a mar in the record of this Chamber that knows no equal in 
decades. Yet there she is in that seat, adhering to an extraordinary 
degree of

[[Page S6916]]

ultraconservative, partisan, we-the-powerful-and-privileged philosophy.
  She opposes the use of eminent domain to seize properties to be used 
for a public purpose--public parks and highways--as is the purpose of 
eminent domain. Yet she supports the use of eminent domain to rip away 
a piece of property from individuals--private property owners--in order 
to give it to a for-profit corporation, which is the opposite of the 
purpose of eminent domain--once again, an individual hating, if you 
will, of public purpose and a ripping away of individual rights--
destroying them--on behalf of a for-profit corporation.
  She has advocated for narrowing the scope of the Federal Government's 
legislative powers to such a degree that it would be virtually 
impossible to protect clean air, clean water, and civil rights. She has 
attacked the increasing of funding for public schools while she has 
supported sending public funds to private religious schools.
  This path of using legislation like the healthcare bill and 
legislation like this tax bill to crush working America on behalf of 
the very wealthy is simply wrong, and it is wrong to do it by trying to 
pack the court, and we need to do everything that we can to stop it.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority leader.

                          ____________________



