

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 188 (Thursday, November 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 188 (Thursday, November 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S7297-S7298]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 58

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the names of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) and the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 58, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
to repeal the excise tax on high cost employer-sponsored health 
coverage.


                                 S. 63

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 63, a bill to clarify the 
rights of Indians and Indian tribes on Indian lands under the National 
Labor Relations Act.


                                 S. 91

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 91, a bill to amend the 
Indian Employment, Training and Related Services Demonstration Act of 
1992 to facilitate the ability of Indian tribes to integrate the 
employment, training, and related services from diverse Federal 
sources, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from California 
(Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 322, a bill to protect 
victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating 
violence from emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts of 
violence or threats of violence against their pets.


                                 S. 426

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 426, a bill to 
increase educational assistance provided by the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for education and training of physician assistants of the 
Department, to establish pay grades and require competitive pay for 
physician assistants of the Department, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from California 
(Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 654, a bill to revise 
section 48 of title 18, United States Code, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 732

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 732, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow a refundable

[[Page S7298]]

tax credit against income tax for the purchase of qualified access 
technology for the blind.


                                 S. 793

  At the request of Ms. Harris, her name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
793, a bill to prohibit sale of shark fins, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 978

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 978, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of Education to establish an award program recognizing 
excellence exhibited by public school system employees providing 
services to students in prekindergarten through higher education.


                                S. 1016

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the names of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) and the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1016, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to expand access to telehealth services, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1064

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. 
Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1064, a bill to amend the 
Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act to prohibit the 
stigmatization of children who are unable to pay for meals.


                                S. 1281

  At the request of Ms. Hassan, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1281, a bill to establish 
a bug bounty pilot program within the Department of Homeland Security, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1413

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1413, a bill to authorize 
the Secretary of Education to award grants to establish teacher leader 
development programs.


                                S. 1591

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1591, a bill to impose sanctions with respect to the Democratic 
People's Republic of Korea, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1738

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1738, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for a home infusion therapy 
services temporary transitional payment under the Medicare program.


                                S. 1871

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1871, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to clarify the role of podiatrists 
in the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1927

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1927, a bill to amend 
section 455(m) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 in order to allow 
adjunct faculty members to qualify for public service loan forgiveness.


                                S. 1962

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1962, a bill to provide 
relief to community banks, to promote access to capital for community 
banks, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2057

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2057, a bill to 
prevent conflicts of interest that stem from the revolving door that 
raises concerns about the independence of pharmaceutical regulators.


                                S. 2129

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2129, a bill 
to amend title 10, United States Code, to establish a punitive article 
in the Uniform Code of Military Justice on domestic violence, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2135

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Heinrich), the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey), the 
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. Alexander), the Senator from Nevada (Ms. 
Cortez Masto), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) and the Senator 
from Alaska (Ms. Murkowski) were added as cosponsors of S. 2135, a bill 
to enforce current law regarding the National Instant Criminal 
Background Check System.


                              S. RES. 291

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the names of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds), the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Young) and the 
Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 
291, a resolution affirming the historical connection of the Jewish 
people to the ancient and sacred city of Jerusalem and condemning 
efforts at the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural 
Organization (UNESCO) to deny Judaism's millennia-old historical, 
religious, and cultural ties to Jerusalem.


                              S. RES. 319

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 319, a resolution supporting 
the goals, activities, and ideals of Prematurity Awareness Month.

                          ____________________



