

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 11 (Friday, January 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 11 (Friday, January 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S361-S362]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS ANDJOINT RESOLUTIONS

      By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Tillis, Ms. 
        Klobuchar, Mr. Cornyn,Mr. Leahy, Mr. Bennet, and Mrs. 
        Feinstein.
  S. 178. A bill to prevent elder abuse and exploitation and improvethe 
justice system's response to victims in elder abuse and exploitation 
cases; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. Pisesident, I have fought for years toprotect our 
Nation's seniors from abuse and exploitation, initially, as former 
Chairman of the Senate Aging Committee, formerChairman of the Senate 
Finance Committee, and more recently, as Chairman of the Senate 
Judiciary Committee.
  This past June, Ichaired a Judiciary Committee hearing on Protecting 
Older Americans from Financial Exploitation. At the hearing, we heard 
aboutnumerous scams in which seniors were targeted time after time, 
resulting in their being defrauded, often with devastatingconsequences. 
We also heard that many older Americans don't report instances of elder 
abuse or exploitation due toembarrassment, a refusal to acknowledge 
that they were victimized, or reliance on the perpetrator as their 
caretaker.
  Sadly,these accounts of elder abuse are nothing new. What has changed 
is that the scams targeting seniors are becoming 
increasinglysophisticated. That is one of the reasons why elder 
financial exploitation has been dubbed ``the crime of the 
21stcentury.''
  I have made it a top priority to get the Federal Government to step 
up its efforts to fight the abuse, neglect,and financial exploitation 
of our Nation's seniors.
  Last year, I called on the Justice Department to outline its efforts 
toprevent and respond to instances of elder abuse. First, I sent a 
letter to the Department to find out what it's doing to protectseniors 
from a new and particularly troubling form of exploitation: the 
photographing and online publication of nursing homeresidents in 
embarrassing and compromising situations.
  I also sent a letter to inquire about the Department's efforts 
tofight imposter scams, in which fraudsters pose as employees of the 
IRS or another government agency, in order to depriveordinary Americans 
of millions of dollars of their hard earned money. And as tax season 
approaches once again, it's criticalthat folks watch out for these 
deceitful scams.
  I also asked about the data the Department is collecting on 
financialexploitation, as well as how this data is being used to 
support Federal efforts to protect America's seniors.
  In its responseto my inquiries, the Justice Department effectively 
admitted that it falls short in several respects. The Department said 
thatit ``does not collect data on the prevalence of elder financial 
exploitation nationwide.'' Further, the Department said that itcan't 
provide statistical information on the number of cases it has 
prosecuted for elder financial exploitation.
  What allthis means is that we are not getting the full picture of 
elder financial exploitation.
  We do know that some older Americans'trusting and polite nature, 
combined with their hard-earned retirement savings, make them 
particularly attractive targets forfraudsters. We also know that the 
abuse and exploitation of older Americans is on the rise and it can 
take manyforms.
  Financial exploitation is the most widespread form of elder abuse, 
costing America's seniors between an estimated $2.9billion and $36 
billion annually. But, sadly, its costs aren't limited to the negative 
effect on seniors' bank accounts. Victimssuffer all sorts of negative 
effects, including diminished health, loss of independence, and 
psychological distress.
  It isestimated that up to 37 percent of seniors in the United States 
are affected by some form of financial exploitation in any 5-year 
period.
  In my home State of Iowa, so-called grandparent scams are on the 
rise. In these scams, fraudsters presentthemselves to an older American 
as a grandchild in distress, hoping to convince the grandparent to send 
cash or give out acredit card number.
  Con artists are also using sweepstakes scams to steal money from 
seniors. A senior is called and toldthey have won a prize or sum of 
money. But before they can claim the supposed prize, the victim is 
required to pay taxes orprocessing fees. Once the money is paid to 
cover the taxes and fees, however, no prize ever materializes.
  Other instances ofelder financial exploitation are more personal in 
nature and have especially devastating effects. Some victims are 
pressuredinto signing over a deed, modifying a will, or giving a power 
of attorney. Americans have lost their farms, homes, and lifesavings to 
this form of fraud.
  In short, elder abuse and exploitation is a serious problem, and it 
demands a strong response.It requires all of us to work together in a 
collaborative way.
  So, today I am proud to introduce the Elder Abuse Preventionand 
Prosecution Act. I thank my colleagues--Senators Blumenthal, Tillis, 
Klobuchar, and Cornyn forcollaborating with me on this comprehensive 
and bipartisan bill's development and for joining as original 
cosponsors. It takes amulti-pronged approach to combating the abuse and 
financial exploitation of our nation's senior citizens.
  We have heard aneed for specialized prosecutors and more focused 
efforts to combat abuse and exploitation. That is why the bill directs 
theAttorney General to designate at least one federal prosecutor in 
each U.S. Attorney's Office to serve as an Elder JusticeCoordinator for 
that district.
  To ensure that elder abuse is a priority for the Federal Trade 
Commission and the JusticeDepartment, the bill also calls for each 
agency to have an Elder Justice Coordinator.
  We also need to send a strong messagethat efforts to target our 
Nation's seniors won't be tolerated. That is why the bill enhances 
elder victims' access torestitution and increases penalties for 
criminals who use telemarketing or email in their schemes to defraud 
seniors.
  Thebill also requires that the Justice Department partner with the 
Department of Health and Human Services to provide training 
andtechnical assistance to State and local governments on the 
investigation, prevention, prosecution, and mitigation of elder 
abuseand neglect.
  Finally we have heard about the need for more data on financial 
exploitation

[[Page S362]]

and the government'sresponse. Gathering accurate information about 
elder abuse is not only crucial to understanding the scope of the 
problem, but itis also essential in determining where resources should 
be allocated. So, the bill helps to accomplish that.
  It requires thatdata be collected from federal prosecutors and law 
enforcement in cases where an older American was the target of abuse 
orexploitation.
  These and other reforms included in the bill are the product of a 
truly bipartisan effort, as well as insightfrom key stakeholders and 
those who've been battling elder financial exploitation on the front 
lines.
  This 21st century crimerequires a 21st century response. The Elder 
Abuse Prevention and Prosecution Act takes a strong step toward 
protecting ourNation's seniors, and I urge my colleagues to support 
this bill.

                          ____________________



