

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H750]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                            TRUMP MUSLIM BAN

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Maryland (Mr. Hoyer) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise out of deep concern for our country, 
our people, and those who serve us in uniform.
  The executive order signed by President Trump on Friday has not only 
sown chaos and created a backlash being felt across the world, it is 
also endangering our people here at home and our troops overseas.
  It bans refugees and is, for all intents and purposes, a ban on 
Muslims entering our country. It is a religious test. It plays right 
into the hands of ISIS, al Qaeda, and other extremist groups that mean 
to do us harm. It arms them. Their message in recruiting and propaganda 
has been that America is at war with Islam and that when we say we are 
tolerant and inclusive, it is a lie.
  We must not let it be a lie.
  Make no mistake, Mr. Speaker, this order will do nothing to make 
America safer from terrorism. Our enemies will use this Muslim ban to 
their full advantage, broadcast to all of those who, for whatever 
reason, may be teetering on the edge of extremism, one image, one 
tweet, one excuse away from radicalization. And our Muslim allies are 
scratching their heads in disbelief and disappointment.
  CBS News reported this morning, Mr. Speaker, that a senior Iraqi 
general who commands the elite counterterrorism force trained by the 
United States military was supposed to come here next week but is now 
banned from doing so. He told CBS news: ``I am a four-star general. I 
have been fighting terrorism for 13 years and winning. Now my kids are 
asking me if I am a terrorist.'' That general, Talib al-Kenani, has 
been coming here for over a decade meeting with senior U.S. military 
leaders at CENTCOM, but now he is banned from entering the country.
  This policy is dangerous, counterproductive, and extremely 
unfortunate.
  It is important to note, Mr. Speaker, that of the seven countries 
included in this ban--hear me, my colleagues--of the seven countries 
included in this ban, no refugee or immigrant from any of those nations 
has committed a terrorist act in the United States.
  The President of the United States has a responsibility--a sacred and 
public trust--to do everything in his power to protect our Nation. We 
have that same responsibility. This Congress has a sacred duty to hold 
the President accountable and ourselves for doing so in a way that 
respects our Constitution and our values. That, Mr. Speaker, is 
patriotism.
  So I urge my colleagues on both sides: Stand against this order. 
Stand up for America. Stand up for the Constitution. Stand up for our 
values. Stand against an act that does nothing but empower our enemies 
and erode faith in our highest principles in our country and around the 
world.
  The Nation, Mr. Speaker, is watching.
  The world, Mr. Speaker, is watching.
  I urge us to action.
  Representatives Lofgren and Conyers have introduced a bill to block 
this executive order. I have cosponsored it, along with 160 other 
Members of this House. This is a time when party should not be put 
before country. Party should not be put before patriotism. Party should 
not be put before principle.
  Join me, and let us deny our enemies this potent tool and remind the 
world what truly makes America great.

                          ____________________



