

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 17 (Wednesday, February 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 17 (Wednesday, February 1, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H827-H828]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   DO NOT DESTROY THE AMERICAN DREAM

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Connecticut (Ms. DeLauro) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I rise to share a story that has weighed 
heavy on my heart.
  The President speaks about keeping America safe. He speaks about 
building a wall. He speaks about deporting undocumented immigrants. His 
rhetoric of hate and fear is causing millions of families unspeakable 
pain. This is happening in every community across our country and it is 
happening in my community.
  I want to share a letter I received from one of my office's most 
dedicated interns one week after the election. This young man was such 
a positive force in my office. He took on tasks with a smile. He had an 
insatiable appetite for learning about our government. He was one of 
the finest interns our office has ever seen.
  I was proud to have him to be one of the first people that our 
constituents interacted with when they contacted our office. But a week 
after the election, this young man, Sergio, went home. He left me this 
letter, which I will read to you in its entirety because Sergio tells 
his own story better than I ever could:
  ``Dear Representative DeLauro:
  ``I was honored to intern in your Washington office and learn more 
about the government of the United States, and more specifically 
responding to constituents' concerns. Walking through the long tunnels 
that connect the congressional buildings to the Capitol I began to 
envision myself working in the District of Columbia upon graduation. 
But like for many people, the election results have forced me to take a 
different path.
  ``After the Presidential election, all the stability that had allowed 
my family and me to become part of the American life was turned into 
fear and doubt about our future. Not only has the President-elect vowed 
to deport millions of undocumented immigrants, but he also promised to 
remove the DACA program. For this reason, I had to return to New Haven 
and assist my family as we figure out which decisions are the best to 
take moving forward. Thus, I am sorry to inform you that I will no 
longer be able to continue my internship in your Washington, D.C. 
office.
  ``I want to express that while I am in constant fear questioning 
whether I will be able to complete my undergraduate degree, or if my 
U.S.-citizen sister will be separated from us, I am not giving in. My 
best memory working in your office was running into an old employer who 
came to the office for a Capitol tour. Reflecting on the aspirations I 
had working as a busser to get myself through high school, I remember 
your persona always providing me with hope. That hope has grown 
exponentially as I reminisce on the times you walked into the office 
and greeted all your interns with such gratitude and enthusiasm.
  ``With infinite gratitude, Sergio.''

[[Page H828]]

  How does this promising young man's fear make us safer? How can we 
stand idly by while his family navigates unspeakable anxiety and pain? 
How can we live with ourselves if we let these hateful policies stand?
  Sergio is a bright young man dedicated to public service, and now he 
is a young man questioning his future and the future of his family. 
This story breaks my heart; it should break yours.
  President Trump's executive orders are not just anti-immigrant; they 
are anti-American. Most of our families, including my own, came to this 
country as immigrants.
  My father came through Ellis Island in 1913 as an immigrant from 
Italy. He was in school, and he had to leave school in the seventh 
grade as he was 11 years old because his teachers and his classmates 
laughed at him.
  He got himself an education, served his country in the United States 
military for 8 years, served on the City Council in New Haven, worked 
as hard as he could along with my mother, whose mother and father came 
from Italy before her. They scrimped and they saved to give me the 
finest education. And as an immigrant family, they could only dare 
dream that I would sit in the United States House of Representatives 
and be here today.
  It is the American Dream. It is what this Nation is all about as we 
stand under this dome in this building, the seat of our democracy.
  Do not let any individual, any political party destroy that American 
Dream. Our country is made richer by immigrants. We have always 
welcomed men, women, and children to our shores so that they can build 
a better life and build a stronger nation.
  The President's executive orders are an insult to our country's roots 
and our values. Instead of uniting us, he threatens to further divide 
us.
  I stand with Sergio and the millions of people like him whose futures 
are in flux because of this administration's misguided policies.
  Do not destroy the American Dream.

                          ____________________



