

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 12 (Monday, January 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 12 (Monday, January 23, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H591-H592]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 MOMENT OF SILENCE FOR VICTIMS OF TORNADOES IN GEORGIA AND MISSISSIPPI

  (Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia asked and was given permission to 
address the House for 1 minute.)
  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, you have, I am sure, seen 
the devastation from the tornadoes on the TV. My district, Cook County, 
is the heart of ground zero. We had seven deaths in Cook County; two in 
Brooks County; two in Berrien County; four in my colleague's, Mr. 
Bishop's district in Dougherty County; and four in Mississippi.
  I want to say thank you to the many volunteers and first responders 
who have been there to provide aid. I want to say thank you to the 
Americans who have provided prayers.
  When I spoke earlier, we had five people unaccounted for. Four of the 
five are accounted for and alive today. We are thankful for that. We 
are still trying to account for one additional person.
  Recovery efforts are still going on. I ask that you continue to keep 
these families who have lost so much and the first responders in your 
prayers.
  I would like to say thank you to Governor Deal for his speedy 
response and President Trump and his administration for their quick 
response to the tragedy.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Mississippi (Mr. Palazzo).
  Mr. PALAZZO. Mr. Speaker, I come before this body tonight with my 
colleagues from Mississippi and Georgia to offer our prayers for those 
whose lives were lost, whose homes were destroyed, and whose 
neighborhoods were

[[Page H592]]

shattered during this weekend's tornadoes across the Southeast.
  We also extend our deepest gratitude to our first responders, local 
law enforcement, and emergency personnel for their quick, courageous, 
and compassionate response in the aftermath of the storm.
  Finally, I also want to say thank you to the citizens of Mississippi 
who rushed toward the sites of devastation. Their generosity, bravery, 
and willingness to help their neighbors gives me hope that our 
community will rebuild again and be stronger than ever.
  We will get through this difficult time together, confident in our 
ability to persevere through any trial, with neighbor helping neighbor, 
as we begin the difficult work of rebuilding our community following 
this terrible natural disaster.
  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman 
from Georgia (Mr. Bishop).
  Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, in my hometown of Albany, 
Georgia, four of my neighbors lost their lives due to the tornadoes and 
storms that tore through our city. Many more in both Albany and the 
larger region had their homes destroyed and their lives upended.
  For the second time this month, our region has confronted the worst 
that Mother Nature had to offer. However, I am confident that, with the 
grace of God, we will continue to see the best in human nature as we 
come together as a community to support each other during these very, 
very trying times.
  I ask that the Members of this House, the Senate, and the 
administration join my colleagues from Mississippi and Georgia to 
ensure that all of those impacted by these disasters are provided the 
necessary resources to recover and to rebuild their lives as soon as 
possible.
  In this moment, though it is but a small gesture, given the magnitude 
of the disaster, I ask that the House observe a moment of silence to 
recognize and remember the victims of the storms and tornadoes that 
struck the Southeast region of our Nation.

                          ____________________



