

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S60-S62]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS ANDJOINT RESOLUTIONS

      By Mr. FLAKE (for himself and Mr. Johnson):
  S. 28. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to expand 
the permissible use of health savings accounts to includehealth 
insurance payments and to increase the dollar limitation for 
contributions to health savings accounts, and for otherpurposes; to the 
Committee on Finance.
  Mr. FLAKE. Mr. President, I rise to speak today about legislation I 
am introducing, the Health Savings Account ExpansionAct.
  Earlier this month, individuals across this country were once again 
faced with fewer choices and increased costs whenpurchasing health 
insurance coverage. Unfortunately, this has been a common occurrence 
since the Affordable Care Act'sinception, but no State, I can tell you, 
is feeling the pinch more than my State of Arizona. Prior to the flawed 
rollout of theexchanges in 2013, Arizona had 24 health insurance 
companies offering plans in the individual market. Just last year, 
residentsin Arizona's most populous county Maricopa, where I live, had 
only 8 private providers to choose from on the exchange--so from 24to 
8. Then, if that wasn't bad enough, a few months ago, individuals all 
across Arizona received notification that theirinsurance plans were no 
longer being offered, despite the current administration's hollow 
promise that they could keep theirplans. Now nearly stripped of their 
preferred health insurance, residents in 14 of 15 Arizona counties--14 
out of 15counties--logged into the ObamaCare exchanges to shop for new 
plans only to discover that instead of the vibrant marketplace theyused 
to have, they were left with only one insurer to choose from--so from 
24 to 8, to 1 for 14 of Arizona's 15 counties.
  So today, when I hear my friends on the other side of the aisle 
talking about preserving this wonderful program, I am saying``What 
State of denial do you live in?'' because it is certainly not working 
in Arizona. In fact, Pinal County in Arizonabriefly held the 
unfortunate distinction as the only county in America without a single 
insurer willing to offer plans on itsexchange, not a single one. 
Fortunately, a few months later, one stepped in--just one. Of the plans 
that were ultimately madeavailable to Arizonans on the exchange, the 
average policy came with a premium hike of nearly 50 percent--an 
average of nearly 50percent. With only one game in town, there was no 
shopping around for a better deal.
  To help put this in perspective, I would like to compare the average 
cost of health care coverage in Arizona to one of themost important 
purchases a family will ever make, and that is a home. Throughout most 
counties in Arizona, it is now cheaper toput a roof over your family's 
head than it is to pay your monthly health insurance premium under 
ObamaCare.
  Let me say that again. Throughout most counties in Arizona, it is now 
cheaper to put a roof over your family's head than itis to pay your 
monthly health insurance premium under ObamaCare. This is for Maricopa 
County. It is the county in which I liveand includes Phoenix. 
Homeowners can expect to pay nearly $500 more per month on their health 
insurance than they do on theirhouse--$500 more on their health 
insurance than they do on their house. This is for the ObamaCare silver 
plan premium. This is afamily--age 40 with two children. So that's 
about the median, and this is the median mortgage payment with respect 
to MaricopaCounty--$500 more.
  Let's see the visual for Pima County. Pima County is home to Tucson. 
Health care premiums ran an average family $100 moreper month than 
their mortgage. So in Pima County you are still paying more--$100 more 
for your health insurance premium than youare for your mortgage.
  Then there is Pinal County, the third largest in Arizona. According 
to Arizona's Department of Insurance, the averagepremium for a silver 
plan in Pinal County for the average family of four is over $1700. That 
is double the median monthlymortgage payment for the same county. If 
you live in Pinal County, AZ, you are paying twice as much for your 
health insurancepremium.
  Keep in mind, we are talking about the premium, to say nothing of 
what happens when you go to the hospital or to your doctorand you have 
to pay deductibles that are through the roof or co-pays that people 
have never experienced before. So when theyutilize that coverage they 
paid for with their premium, they realize they can't afford that 
either.
  The situation isn't unique to these counties, the three most populous 
counties in Arizona. In all 15 of Arizona's counties,premiums for a 
family of 4 dramatically exceed the median monthly mortgage.
  It is unacceptable for the Federal Government to force families to 
spend upwards of $1,700 per month of their hard-earnedincome on a 
substandard product without options or choices, only to then slap them 
with a draconian penalty that they simplycan't afford to pay for an 
untenable law.
  Arizona is, without a doubt, ground zero for the structural failures 
that are plaguing insurance markets around the country.Insurance 
exchanges are on the verge of collapsing; premiums, deductibles, out-
of-pocket expenses are skyrocketing; and ourhealth care system is in 
desperate need of reform. That is why I stand here today to introduce 
the Health Savings AccountExpansion Act.
  The Health Savings Account Expansion Act goes a long way toward 
reforming our health care system by putting consumers backin charge of 
their own health care. The bill provides individuals and families with 
freedom to choose the health care that bestmeets their needs and allows 
them to use their health savings accounts on medical products and 
services they value most.

[[Page S61]]

  HSAs give consumers greater control over their health care dollars by 
providing them with a tax-advantaged savings optionfor their medical 
expenses. This means that the dollars they work so hard to save can 
grow over time, tax free, and can bewithdrawn tax free for qualified 
medical expenses. The HSA Expansion Act strengthens this important tool 
by nearly tripling thearbitrarily low contribution limits, thus 
allowing for greater tax equity and more universal participation in 
HSAs. The billwould then allow individuals to use these expanded HSAs 
to help cover the costs of their monthly health insurance premiums. 
Thisis a critically important feature, particularly for middle-class 
families whose incomes fall slightly above the qualifiedthreshold for 
subsidies but whose health insurance has become unaffordable.
  In Arizona, I like to go to the gym in the morning, and I like to get 
on an exercise bike. By that bike is kind of a hallwaywhere people will 
walk by. Inevitably, in the morning, I will have a lineup of people who 
will stand to tell me their ObamaCarehorror stories--how much their 
premiums have gone up or that they no longer have any options or that 
they have had to pay thepenalty or that when they go to utilize their 
care, they simply can't afford the co-pays and deductibles. I can tell 
you, it issobering to hear these stories again and again and again.
  In addition to further incentivizing prudent savings for health 
expenses, this legislation repeals existing restrictions putin place by 
ObamaCare on over-the-counter medications while also reducing the 
penalty for withdrawing HSA funds for nonqualifiedpurchases. These 
reforms will help streamline HSAs while also making them more user-
friendly for consumers.
  Arizonans are struggling. They are struggling under the weight of 
bureaucracy that is complicating their health caredecisions that are 
some of the most personal and important decisions individuals make for 
themselves and their families. If wehope to lift that burden off the 
backs of our constituents, we have to recognize that the key to 
reforming our health caresystem is not more government intervention; 
rather, it is allowing individuals the freedom to take back control of 
their healthcare and incentivizing prudent decisionmaking.
  As the Senate looks to repeal this disastrous law and replace it with 
real reforms that would successfully lower health carecosts and improve 
choice, I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure that 
this legislation is included in thosenegotiations.
                                 ______
                                 
      By Mr. SCHUMER (forMrs. Feinstein (for herself, Mr. Cornyn, Ms. 
        Klobuchar, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Franken, Mr. Tillis,Mrs. Gillibrand, 
        Mr. Markey, and Mr. Flake)):
  S. 30. A bill to extend the civil statute of limitations for victims 
of Federal sex offenses; to the Committee on theJudiciary.
  Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I rise to introduce the Extending 
Justice for Sex Crime Victims Act, a bill to extend thetime for minors 
to seek justice against their perpetrators.
  Sex crimes committed against children tragically remain a vile and 
dangerous reality in communities across this country.
  Just this past summer, as the world tuned into the 2016 Olympic Games 
in Rio de Janeiro, the Indianapolis Star reported thatUSA Gymnastics 
had failed to report to law enforcement allegations of child sexual 
abuse committed by some of its coaches.
  Due to these purported failures, athletes as young as 7 years old 
were reported to have been abused for years, without anyaction taken to 
prevent the abuse.
  Since the initial Indianapolis Star report, more and more young 
gymnasts have come forward about their abuse.
  All over the world, and all over this country, sex abuse victims are 
bravely coming forward to tell their stories of abusewhen they were 
children.
  In my home state of California, numerous victims have contacted my 
office. They have shared the amount of courage andstrength it took to 
finally come forward with their experiences.
  These stories represent an untold amount of pain and suffering. They 
also represent how difficult it is to come forwarduntil later, in 
adulthood.
  It has been estimated that 90 percent of child sex crime victims 
never go to the authorities concerning their abuse.
  To put this into context, studies indicate that at least one in four 
girls and about one in five boys is sexually abused. 90percent of those 
victims never go to the authorities.
  A great number of victims don't ever disclose their abuse. If they 
do, they do not come forward until many years later,after reaching 
adulthood.
  This bill extends the civil statute of limitations in two ways for 
minor victims of Federal sex crimes to seek justiceagainst their 
perpetrators.
  For one, the bill extends the statute of limitations for minor 
victims until the age of 28, from age 21, for injuriesstemming from sex 
crimes such as sexual abuse and child pornography.
  Second, for the two laws that provide civil remedies for sex abuse 
and sex trafficking victims, the bill clarifies that thestatute of 
limitations does not begin to run until after the victim actually 
discovers the injury or the violation.
  This is significant because victims of sex crimes are sometimes 
abused even before they can remember the abuse, some asyoung as 3 years 
old. Some victims are unable to connect their abuse to the injurious 
symptoms they exhibit throughout theirlives.
  The bill therefore clarifies that the limitations period begins when 
the victim first discovers the injury or the violation.
  Through these provisions, the bill ensures that minor victims have an 
extended period to seek justice against theirperpetrators after 
discovering their injury or violation.
  I want to thank Senator Cornyn again for working so closely with me 
on this issue. I also want to thank the cosponsorsto this bill: 
Senators Klobuchar, Inhofe, Franken, Flake, Gillibrand, Tillis, and 
Markey.
  I also want to acknowledge the support for this bill from the 
National Center for Victims of Crime, Rape Abuse & IncestNational 
Network, the National Children's Advocacy Center, SGS for Healing, 
National Crime Victim Law Institute, NationalAssociation of VOCA 
Assistance Administrators, National Network to End Domestic Violence, 
Stop the Silence, PROTECT, theNational Association to Protect Children, 
Rights4Girls, End Rape on Campus, National Children's Alliance, 
Lauren's Kids,Minnesota Coalition Against Sexual Assault, and Survivors 
Network of those Abused by Priests.
                                 ______
                                 
      By Mr. WYDEN (for Mrs. Feinstein (for herself, Mr.Wyden, Ms. 
        Cantwell, Mr. Merkley, Mrs. Murray, and Ms. Harris)):
  S. 31. A bill to amend the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to 
permanently prohibit the conduct of offshore drilling on theouter 
Continental Shelf off the coast of California, Oregon, and Washington; 
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
  Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I rise to introduce a bill, the West 
Coast Ocean Protection Act, which would amend the OuterContinental 
Shelf Lands Act to prohibit the Department of the Interior from issuing 
a lease for offshore oil or gas in federalwaters off the coast of 
California, Oregon, or Washington.
  I am pleased to be joined today by Senators Wyden, Merkley, Cantwell, 
Murray, and Harris insponsoring this bill, which has been reintroduced 
in every Congress since 2010.
  The original impetus for this bill was the Deepwater Horizon 
catastrophe in the Gulf of Mexico in April of 2010, whichdemonstrated 
yet again the risks of offshore oil and gas extraction.
  When the Deepwater Horizon well blew out, 11 people died and 17 
others were injured. Oil and gas rushed into the Gulf ofMexico for 87 
days.
  Oil slicks spread across the Gulf of Mexico, tar balls spoiled the 
pristine white sand beaches of Florida, wetlands werecoated with toxic 
sludge, and more than one-third of federal waters in the Gulf were 
closed to fishing.
  While Deepwater Horizon served as an important reminder, the dangers 
of offshore oil and gas were already too well known toCalifornians. In 
1969, the Santa Barbara oil spill leaked up to 100,000 barrels of oil, 
and remains the third largest oil spillin the country to this day.

[[Page S62]]

  Like the Deepwater Horizon, the Santa Barbara oil spill was caused by 
a natural gas blowout when pressure in the drill holefluctuated.
  It took 11 days to plug the hole with mud and cement, but oil and gas 
continued to seep for months.
  Using containment technologies still in place today, the cleanup 
effort relied on skimmers, detergent, and booms.
  There has been no new drilling in waters controlled by the State of 
California since then, and there has been no newdrilling in Federal 
waters off the coast of California since 1981.
  Appropriately, the most recent plan from the Department of the 
Interior for Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing willnot allow 
new leasing off the Pacific Coast of California, Oregon or Washington 
through 2022.
  The fact is that those of us on the Pacific coast do not want any 
further offshore oil or gas development.
  In 2012 California's 19 coastal counties generated $662 billion in 
wages and $1.7 trillion in GDP. This accounts for 80percent of the 
economic activity in the State.
  California's Ocean economy, including tourism, recreation, and marine 
transportation, accounts for over 489,000 jobs.
  Unlike other areas of the country, any potential fossil fuel 
resources off the coast of California are likely to be foundwithin only 
50 miles of the coast, because of the narrow shelf off the California 
coast. This means that any potential drilling,and any potential spills, 
would be in direct conflict with the ocean environment and economy that 
my state enjoys.
  Enacting a permanent ban on offshore drilling would protect our coast 
for generations to come.

                          ____________________



