

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 6 (Tuesday, January 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 6 (Tuesday, January 10, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H283-H285]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   TESTED ABILITY TO LEVERAGE EXCEPTIONAL NATIONAL TALENT ACT OF 2017

  Mr. HURD. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill 
(H.R. 39) to amend title 5, United States Code, to codify the 
Presidential Innovation Fellows Program, and for other purposes.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                H.R. 39

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Tested Ability to Leverage 
     Exceptional National Talent Act of 2017'' or the ``TALENT Act 
     of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. PRESIDENTIAL INNOVATION FELLOWS PROGRAM.

       (a) In General.--Chapter 31 of title 5, United States Code, 
     is amended by adding at the end the following:

        ``SUBCHAPTER V--PRESIDENTIAL INNOVATION FELLOWS PROGRAM

     ``Sec. 3171. Presidential Innovation Fellows Program

       ``(a) Policy.--It is in the national interest for the 
     Government to attract the brightest minds skilled in 
     technology or innovative practices to serve in the Government 
     to work on some of the Nation's biggest and most pressing 
     challenges. This subchapter establishes a program to 
     encourage successful entrepreneurs, executives, and 
     innovators to join the Government and work in close 
     cooperation with Government leaders, to create meaningful 
     solutions that can help save lives and taxpayer money, fuel 
     job creation, and significantly improve how the Government 
     serves the American people.
       ``(b) Establishment.--The Administrator of General Services 
     shall continue the Presidential Innovation Fellows Program 
     (hereinafter referred to as the `Program') to enable 
     exceptional individuals with proven track records to serve 
     time-limited appointments in executive agencies to address 
     some of the Nation's most significant challenges and improve 
     existing Government efforts that would particularly benefit 
     from expertise using innovative techniques and technology.
       ``(c) Administration.--The Program shall be administered by 
     a Director, appointed by the Administrator under authorities 
     of the General Services Administration. The Administrator 
     shall provide necessary staff, resources and administrative 
     support for the Program.
       ``(d) Appointment of Fellows.--The Director shall appoint 
     fellows pursuant to the Program and, in cooperation with 
     executive agencies, shall facilitate placement of fellows to 
     participate in projects that have the potential for 
     significant positive effects and are consistent with the 
     President's goals.
       ``(e) Application Process.--
       ``(1) In general.--The Director shall prescribe the process 
     for applications and nominations of individuals to the 
     Program.
       ``(2) Program standards.--Following publication of these 
     processes, the Director may accept for consideration 
     applications from individuals. The Director shall establish, 
     administer, review, and revise, if appropriate, a 
     Governmentwide cap on the number of fellows. The Director 
     shall establish and publish salary ranges, benefits, and 
     standards for the Program.
       ``(f) Selection, Appointment, and Assignment of Fellows.--
       ``(1) Procedures.--The Director shall prescribe appropriate 
     procedures for the selection, appointment, and assignment of 
     fellows.
       ``(2) Consultation.--Prior to the selection of fellows, the 
     Director shall consult with the heads of executive agencies 
     regarding potential projects and how best to meet those 
     needs. Following such consultation, the Director shall select 
     and appoint individuals to serve as fellows.
       ``(3) Time limitation.--Fellows selected for the Program 
     shall serve under short-term, time-limited appointments. Such 
     fellows shall be appointed for no less than 6 months and no 
     longer than 2 years in the Program. The Director shall 
     facilitate the process of placing fellows at requesting 
     executive agencies.
       ``(g) Responsibilities of Agencies.--Each executive agency 
     shall work with the Director and the Presidential Innovation 
     Fellows Program advisory board established under section 3172 
     to attempt to maximize the Program's benefits to the agency 
     and the Government, including by identifying initiatives that 
     have a meaningful effect on the people served and that 
     benefit from involvement by one or more fellows. Such 
     agencies shall ensure that each fellow works closely with 
     responsible senior officials for the duration of the 
     assignment.

     ``Sec. 3172. Presidential Innovation Fellows Program advisory 
       board

       ``(a) In General.--The Administrator of General Services 
     shall continue an advisory board to advise the Director of 
     the Presidential Innovation Fellows Program by recommending 
     such priorities and standards as may be beneficial to fulfill 
     the mission of the Presidential Innovation Fellows Program 
     and assist in identifying potential projects and placements 
     for fellows. The advisory board may not participate in the 
     selection process under section 3171(f).
       ``(b) Chair; Membership.--The Administrator shall designate 
     a representative to serve as the Chair of the advisory board. 
     In addition to the Chair, the membership of the advisory 
     board shall include--
       ``(1) the Deputy Director for Management of the Office of 
     Management and Budget;
       ``(2) the Director of the Office of Personnel Management;
       ``(3) the Administrator of the Office of Electronic 
     Government of the Office of Management and Budget;
       ``(4) the Assistant to the President and Chief Technology 
     Officer; and
       ``(5) other individuals as may be designated by the 
     Administrator.
       ``(c) Consultation.--The advisory board may consult with 
     industry, academia, or nonprofits to ensure the Presidential 
     Innovation Fellows Program is continually identifying 
     opportunities to apply advanced skillsets and innovative 
     practices in effective ways to address the Nation's most 
     significant challenges.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 
     31 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at 
     the end the following:

         ``subchapter v--presidential innovation fellows program

``3171. Presidential Innovation Fellows Program.
``3172. Presidential Innovation Fellows Program advisory board.''.
       (c) Transition.--The Presidential Innovation Fellows 
     Program established pursuant to Executive Order 13704 (5 
     U.S.C. 3301 note) as in existence on the day before the date 
     of enactment of this Act shall be considered the Presidential 
     Innovation Fellows Program described in the amendments made 
     by this Act.
       (d) No Additional Funds Authorized.--No additional funds 
     are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act or 
     the amendments made by this Act. This Act and the amendments 
     made by this Act shall be carried out using amounts otherwise 
     authorized.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Hurd) and the gentleman from California (Mr. DeSaulnier) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas.


                             General Leave

  Mr. HURD. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members have 
5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and to include 
any extraneous material on the bill under consideration.

[[Page H284]]

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Texas?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. HURD. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
California (Mr. McCarthy), the majority leader.
  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, the government is many things. It is 
large, it is complicated, and it is ineffective. I don't think anyone 
would call it modern. While the world is rushing forward with things 
like voice-based interfaces, autonomous vehicles, online retail, and 
data analytics, government is stubbornly years, or even decades, 
behind.
  We do not have to accept it. One of the purposes of the Innovation 
Initiative, our effort here in the House, is to bring government into 
the modern age.
  Right now, it can still take hours for citizens to get the IRS on the 
phone to ask the most basic questions. Parents and students still deal 
with the clunky user interfaces when applying for tuition assistance. 
And the VA still uses a scheduling system that is a quarter century 
old. It doesn't have to be this way.
  We have a program right now, the Presidential Innovation Fellows 
program, that brings in highly talented professionals from across the 
country to help upgrade our government's use of technology. Now, these 
are engineers, designers, innovators, and thinkers. They challenge the 
old ways of thinking and introduce new approaches to make our 
government work the way the American people deserve it to work.
  I sponsored the TALENT Act to make sure this innovation program 
continues into the future. By drawing on the great talent of the 
American people, we can make government effective, efficient, and 
accountable.
  Mr. DeSAULNIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  I rise today in strong support of the TALENT Act, a bill to ensure 
that we continue to bring top private sector innovators into government 
to help solve complex technological problems at Federal agencies.
  The Presidential Innovation Fellows program was established by 
President Obama in 2012 to identify and pursue projects that apply and 
implement innovative private sector techniques in as little as 6 
months. The program was made permanent by Executive Order 13704 in 
2015, and would be codified by the bill before us today.
  H.R. 39 would require the General Services Administration to continue 
managing the program with guidance from an advisory board comprised of 
representatives from different executive branch agencies. Over 100 
Presidential Innovation Fellows have already been appointed to work 
alongside dedicated civil servants at 25 Federal agencies and 
departments.
  At those agencies, fellows have been able to merge their experience 
from top universities, pioneering companies, and successful nonprofits 
with their desire to contribute to society through public service. This 
collaboration has allowed the Federal Government to obtain new tools, 
develop new technologies, and ultimately become more effective and 
efficient.
  Presidential Innovation Fellows have reshaped the way Americans 
interact with their government in areas ranging from health care and 
science to law enforcement and disaster response. Fifteen million 
Americans can access their health data as a result of the program's 
Blue Button initiative, and cancer patients can search for clinical 
trials as part of work to support the Vice President's Cancer Moonshot 
initiative.
  Scientists can now obtain more weather data collected by NOAA, and 
veterans can now more readily access custom prosthetic designs.
  Citizens can review police records, including crime statistics and 
data on officer-involved shootings. And FEMA and other first responders 
can better target and prioritize their response to natural disasters.
  All of these things have been made possible through the Presidential 
Innovation Fellows program, and it is crucial that we continue our 
support of these and other endeavors by ensuring its permanency.
  I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 39.
  I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. HURD. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Today, I am urging my colleagues to support H.R. 39, the TALENT Act, 
introduced by Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy of California. This bill 
passed the House on a strong bipartisan vote in the 114th Congress, and 
I am glad to be part of the team working to enact this important 
legislation into law.
  The TALENT Act makes permanent the Presidential Innovation Fellows 
program that was created in 2012. This highly competitive program 
recruits talented, private sector innovators and technologists from 
across the United States.
  Presidential Innovation Fellows serve in the Washington, D.C., area 
for 12 months at an executive agency. These agencies include the 
Department of Energy, NASA, and the Department of Veterans Affairs.
  Fellows bring with them their experience in the private sector to 
help government turn ideas into tangible results that ultimately 
benefit the American people. Since 2012, at least 96 top innovators 
have participated in the program.
  Past and current fellows have come from companies large and small and 
hold degrees from top universities across the country. They have won a 
variety of awards, including Fulbright scholarships, Silicon Valley 
Business Journal's 40 Under 40 recognition, and Truman National 
Security Project fellowships. These fellows truly are the best and the 
brightest the United States has to offer, and they seek to utilize 
their skills for the American people.

  Presidential Innovation Fellows are giving the Federal Government the 
tools it needs to successfully operate in the 21st century. Previous 
projects completed by fellows include Uncle Sam's List. Fellows created 
a database to offer a centralized information center in which agencies 
can forgo buying new commodity IT and support services in favor of 
existing services provided by the Federal agencies. This program has 
saved an estimated $2.5 billion, and it is helping government become 
more effective and efficient.
  I commend Majority Leader McCarthy for the work to bring this 
innovation to the government. Again, I urge support for this bill.
  I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. DeSAULNIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to 
the gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Hoyer).
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Representative Hurd for his 
work, which has been an ongoing continuing work on this issue and on 
this particular program.
  I rise in support of this bipartisan bill, which builds on the work 
that Majority Leader McCarthy and I and others in this House have been 
doing to modernize government technology and renew America's faith in 
government.
  In 2016, exit polls showed that dissatisfaction with the government 
spanned the political spectrum. That is a shame because government is 
supposed to be a force for improving people's lives, keeping our 
country safe, and expanding opportunities for all Americans.
  That is why I unveiled the House Democrats' Renewing Faith in 
Government agenda last summer. We must present bold solutions to reform 
our democracy and our government. Certainly, on both sides of the 
equation, that is what the American people were saying in the last 
election.
  One of the goals of our agenda is modernizing government technology. 
Most Americans understand the transformative power of technology--the 
Majority Leader spoke of it in so many different aspects of our lives--
and how digitizing businesses makes them more efficient, transparent, 
and accountable. We have seen it in the private sector. Every day, 
millions of Americans shop on sites like Amazon or Etsy and catch a 
ride using Uber or Lyft.
  Government technology is in terrible shape, and bringing the latest 
practices from Silicon Valley into government would make a huge 
difference in serving our citizens and streamlining the way government 
works for the American people.
  Last year, I worked closely with the Obama administration and Tony 
Scott to advance one of its top priorities in this area: creating a 
technology modernization fund for the rapid upgrade of

[[Page H285]]

the most outdated, costly, and insecure technology systems across the 
Federal Government. Mr. Hurd was involved deeply in that effort. The 
result was the Modernizing Government Technology Act, which the House 
passed overwhelmingly with the help of Chairman Chaffetz and Majority 
Leader McCarthy.
  Last month, Majority Leader McCarthy and I expressed our bipartisan 
support for one of President Obama's most successful efforts at 
bringing Silicon Valley talent into the Federal workforce: the U.S. 
Digital Service and GSA's 18F program. In fact, I visited the 18F 
program in San Francisco and was extraordinarily impressed with the 
individuals who peopled that project and were giving of their time. I 
guess we were paying them a little bit, but, relatively speaking, they 
were giving their time.
  Today's bill, the TALENT Act, would make permanent the precursor to 
both these programs: the Presidential Innovation Fellows. This program 
has a proven track record of bringing top talent from the innovation 
economy into the Federal workforce where it is sorely needed.
  I hope the next administration will continue all of these innovative 
programs, which have begun to change the culture within our government.
  I also hope that the talented individuals--many of whom, as I 
referenced, left high-paying jobs in the private sector--will stay on 
through the transition and continue to serve their country by improving 
government technology.
  President Obama made real progress in this area, including with the 
launch of his Open Data Directive, his We the People petition platform, 
and his Cyber National Action Plan. More could have been achieved if 
Congress had agreed to his request to invest more in these areas. We 
have seen a dramatic example of why cybersecurity investment is so 
critically important for our country, not for Democrats, not for 
Republicans, but for all Americans. This is an effort toward that end.
  I hope we can work together in this new Congress to unleash the 
transformative power of modern technology within government and help 
renew America's faith in our government. That is critical if we are to 
be successful as a Nation. I am sure it hopefully is what all of us 
want to do on a bipartisan basis.
  I thank Representative DeSaulnier for his efforts, and I thank 
Representative Hurd for his leadership on this effort.
  I am pleased to join with my counterpart, Majority Leader McCarthy, 
in strong support of this legislation.

                              {time}  1815

  Mr. HURD. Mr. Speaker, I would like to make the gentleman from 
California aware that I have no further speakers and I am prepared to 
close.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. DeSAULNIER. Mr. Speaker, I just briefly congratulate everyone who 
has been involved. As somebody who represents the bay area and 
struggles with the innovation in the private sector there to integrate 
it into the public sector at all levels of government, I really admire 
the work by Mr. Hurd, the comments and the contributions by the 
administration, and Mr. McCarthy and Mr. Hoyer.
  Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers on our side. I congratulate 
Mr. Hurd.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. HURD. Mr. Speaker, I would like to take the opportunity to thank 
for their years of service on such an important issue Mr. DeSaulnier 
and Leader Hoyer and Leader McCarthy.
  I would like to urge the adoption of this bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. Hurd) that the House suspend the rules and 
pass the bill, H.R. 39.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. HURD. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



