

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S299-S307]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




   PROVIDING FOR ANEXCEPTION TO A LIMITATION AGAINST APPOINTMENT OF 
   PERSONS AS SECRETARY OF DEFENSE WITHIN SEVEN YEARS OF RELIEF FROM 
    ACTIVE DUTYAS A REGULAR COMMISSIONED OFFICER OF THE ARMED FORCES

  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will report the bill 
bytitle.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

       A bill (S. 84) to provide for anexception to a limitation 
     against appointment of persons as Secretary of Defense within 
     seven years of relief from active dutyas a regular 
     commissioned officer of the Armed Forces.

  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Under the provisions of PublicLaw 
114-254, there will now be up to 10 hours of debate, equally divided 
between the two leaders or their designees.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, we are on the Mattis waiver.
  Anyone who would like todebate, please come over.
  In the meantime, I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Theclerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorumcall be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Sasse). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.
  Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I be 
permitted to speak as in morning business for 15minutes.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                       Nomination ofJeff Sessions

  Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, the Senate is holding hearings on each 
ofPresident-Elect Trump's nominees to his Cabinet. Traditionally, 
Presidents are accorded a very high level of deference onassembling 
their own team, in part because these nominees are directly accountable 
to the President. But they are accountable tothe American people too.
  No Cabinet member is more powerful or has more impact on the day-to-
day lives of Americans than theAttorney General of the United States.
  The Attorney General is, indeed, a general, in command of an army of 
thousands oflawyers whose words carry enormous weight and power. It is 
the weight and power of the people of the United States. He speaksfor 
us. He charges defendants in our name. He has sweeping authority to 
bring criminal charges in all Federal offenses, enormousunreviewable 
discretion in cases ranging from minor misdemeanors to the most serious 
felonies. In every sense, as capitalpenalties can be sought for some of 
these crimes, he wields the power of life and death.
  The Attorney General's authority isnot only sweeping, it is uniquely 
independent of the President's Cabinet. His decisions must supersede 
partisan politics. Inmost cases, there is no recourse to overrule his 
decisions unless there is political interference. He is not just 
anothergovernment lawyer or even just another member of the President's 
Cabinet. He is the Nation's lawyer, and he must be the Nation'slegal 
counsel and conscience.
  The job of U.S. Attorney General at stake here is one that I know 
pretty well. Like some of mycolleagues in this body, I served as U.S. 
attorney, the chief Federal prosecutor in Connecticut.
  I reported to the U.S.Attorney General. For years afterward as a 
private litigator and then as attorney general of the State of 
Connecticut for 20years, I fought alongside and sometimes against the 
U.S. Attorney General and the legal forces at his disposal. I have seen 
hispower, or hers, firsthand. The power of this Attorney General is 
awesome, as is that of any Attorney General.
  In the best ofcases, they are inspiring too. Even as he protects the 
public from vicious and violent criminal offenders, his role is also 
toprotect the innocent from unfounded charges that could shatter their 
lives even if they are acquitted. As Justice RobertJackson, a former 
Attorney General himself, once said: His job is not to convict, but to 
assure justice is done.
  So this jobrequires a singular level of intellect and integrity and 
nonpartisan but passionate devotion to the rule of law and 
anextraordinary sense of conscience. That is because he is responsible 
for so much more than prosecuting and preventing crime andensuring 
public safety. He is responsible for aggressively upholding our 
Nation's sacred constitutional commitment to protectingindividual 
rights and liberties and preventing infringement on them, even by the 
government itself, maybe especially by thegovernment.

[[Page S300]]

  This responsibility for safeguarding equal justice under the law is 
particularly important today, at atime when those civil rights and 
freedoms are so much in peril. This historic moment demands a 
personwhose life work, professional career, and record shows that he 
will make the guarantee under our Constitution of equal justiceunder 
law a core mandate of his tenure.

  Having reviewed the full record and recent testimony, regrettably and 
respectfully,I cannot support the President-elect's nominee, our 
colleague and friend Jeff Sessions, for this job.
  At hisconfirmation hearing, Senator Sessions simply said he would 
follow the law and he would obey it, but the Attorney Generalof the 
United States must be more than a follower. He must be a leader in 
protecting the essential constitutional rights andliberties. He must be 
a champion, a zealous advocate. He must actively pursue justice, not 
just passively follow or obey thelaw.
  Senator Sessions' record reflects a hostility and antipathy--in fact, 
downright opposition--to civil rights andvoting rights, women's health 
care and privacy rights, antidiscrimination measures, and religious 
freedom safeguards. He hasprided himself on his vociferous opposition 
to immigration reform legislation, a measure that passed this body with 
68bipartisan votes, and a criminal justice reform bill that has 
attracted a group of 25 cosponsors, Democrats and Republicans. Heeven 
split with the majority of his own party to vote against reauthorizing 
the Violence Against Women Act. He opposed hatecrime prohibitions. 
Senator Sessions' views and positions on these issues and others, which 
are critical to protecting andchampioning rights and liberties under 
our Constitution, are simply out of the mainstream. There is nothing in 
SenatorSessions' record, including his testimony before the Judiciary 
Committee this week, that indicates he will be theconstitutional 
champion the Nation needs at this point in its history.
  Equally important, the Attorney General must speaktruth to power. He 
must be ready, willing, and able to say no to the President of the 
United States and ensure that thePresident is never above the law. 
Senator Sessions' record and testimony give me no confidence that he 
will fulfill thiscore task.
  When I asked him about enforcement of cases against illegal conflicts 
of interest involving the President and hisfamily, such as violations 
of the emoluments clause or the STOCK Act, he equivocated. When I asked 
him about appointing aspecial counsel to investigate criminal 
wrongdoing at Deutsche Bank, owed more than $300 million by Donald 
Trump, heequivocated. When I asked him about abstaining from voting on 
other Presidential nominees while he is in the Senate, heequivocated. 
Those answers give me no confidence that he will be the independent, 
nonpolitical law enforcer against conflicts ofinterest and official 
self-enrichment that the Nation needs now more than ever--at a moment 
when the incoming administrationfaces ethical and legal controversies 
that are unprecedented in scope and scale.
  SenatorSessions' record over many years and his recent testimony fail 
to demonstrate the core commitments and convictionsnecessary in our 
next Attorney General.
  Back in 1986, the Senate Judiciary Committee rejected Senator 
Sessions'nomination to a Federal judgeship due to remarks he made and 
actions he took in a position of public trust as U.S. attorney 
inAlabama. However, my position on his nomination is primarily based on 
his record since those hearings and less on what wasconsidered at that 
time.
  On voting rights, Senator Sessions has often condoned barriers to 
Americans exercising theirfranchise. He has been a leading opponent of 
provisions in the Voting Rights Act designed to ensure that African 
Americans canvote in places, such as his home State of Alabama, which 
have a unique history of racial segregation. He has advocated 
forneedlessly restrictive and draconian voter ID laws, citing utterly 
debunked threats of rampant voter fraud as an excuse forcurtailing the 
real and legitimate rights of entire groups of voters.
  On privacy--very important--Senator Sessions haspassionately opposed 
this longstanding American right, which is enshrined in five decades of 
Supreme Court precedent. Itprotects women's health care and personal 
decisions involving reproductive rights. At a time when these rights 
are facing anunprecedented assault, he has continued to condemn Roe v. 
Wade and the many court decisions upholding that case.
  He is alsosupported by extremist groups like Operation Rescue that 
defend the murder of doctors and the vilification and criminalizationof 
women. With him as Attorney General, American women would 
understandably feel less secure about those rights.
  Onreligious freedom, Senator Sessions has advocated for using a 
religious test to determine which immigrants can enter thiscountry. 
When this issue arose in committee, Senator Sessions was the only 
Senator--the only Senator--to argue forcefully forreligious tests and 
against principles of religious liberty that have animated our Republic 
since its founding. With SenatorSessions as Attorney General, a Trump 
administration would enjoy a permanent green light for any racially or 
religiouslydiscriminatory immigration policy that might appeal to him.
  On citizenship, Senator Sessions has called for abolishinga time-
honored tradition that dates back to reconstruction. Birthright 
citizenship is the distinctly American concept thatanyone born on our 
soil is a citizen of our country. We do not exclude people from 
citizenship based on the nationality of theirparents or grandparents. 
Senator Sessions disagrees, a position that most other Republicans 
think is extreme.
  WithSenator Sessions as Attorney General, the Trump administration 
would be encouraged in attempting to deport Americancitizens--who have 
raised families and spent their entire lives here--from the only 
country they have ever known.
  SenatorSessions declined my invitation at his nomination hearing to 
exercise moral and legal leadership and demonstrate hisresolve to serve 
as the Nation's legal conscience. He refused to reject the possibility 
of using information voluntarilyprovided by DACA applicants to deport 
them and their families. As a matter of fundamental fairness and due 
process, when aDREAMer has provided information to our government after 
being invited to come out of the shadows, this information should 
neverbe used to deport that person. With Senator Sessions as Attorney 
General, that sense of legal conscience would be lacking.
  On issues of discrimination and equal protection, Senator Sessions 
has publicly opposed marriage equality, claiming it``weakens marriage'' 
and even tried to eliminate protections for LGBT Americans contained in 
the Runaway and Homeless Youth andTrafficking Prevention Act. He has 
repeatedly voted against steps to enhance enforcement against hate 
crimes--violent assaultsinvolving bigotry or bias based on race, 
religion, and sexual orientation. He even defended President-Elect 
Trump's shockingadmission on video of his pattern of engaging in sexual 
assault.
  Senator Sessions himself has said that publicofficials can be fairly 
judged by assessing who their supporters are. Senator Sessions is 
backed by groups with ties toWhite supremacists.
  He has even accepted an award and repeated campaign donations from 
groups whose founder openly promotesthe goal of maintaining a 
``European American majority'' in our society. Neither award, nor many 
other important parts ofSenator Sessions' record, was reported on the 
questionnaire he prepared for the Judiciary Committee.
  I gave SenatorSessions an opportunity at the hearing earlier this 
week to repudiate these hate groups and racist individuals who 
haveendorsed his nomination and supported him in the past. In fact, 
instead he doubled down, saying that a man who has accusedAfrican 
Americans of excessive criminality and American Muslims of extensive 
ties to terrorism was ``a most brilliantindividual.''
  So I reach my decision to oppose this nomination with regret because 
Jeff Sessions is a colleague and afriend to all of us. Indeed, he and I 
have a rapport. I have come to like and respect

[[Page S301]]

him through a number of sharedexperiences in this building, traveling 
abroad, and outside.
  We have common causes. He and I both support law 
enforcementprofessionals who serve our communities and the Nation with 
dedication and courage. They are never given sufficient thanks 
andappreciation.
  He and I both believe that individual corporate criminal culpability 
should be pursued more vigorously.Individual corporate executives 
should be held accountable for the wrongdoing of corporations when they 
are criminally involved.
  This job, this decision, this responsibility is different. Here, my 
disagreements stem from bedrock constitutionalprinciples. While I could 
envision deferring to Presidential authority and supporting him for 
other positions, my objections tohis nomination here relate 
specifically to this particular, essential, all-powerful job.
  At this historic moment, there mustbe no doubt about the ironclad 
commitment of the Attorney General of the United States to the bedrock 
principle of equal justiceunder law, his resolve to be an independent 
voice, assuring that the President is never above the law, his 
determination to be achampion for all people of America and our 
constitutional principles that protect all people, and to be a legal 
conscience forthe Nation.
  Reviewing his record, I cannot assure the people of Connecticut or 
the country that Jeff Sessions would bea vigorous champion of these 
rights and liberties. Therefore, I stand in opposition to his 
nomination.
  Mr. President, Iyield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  Thelegislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
order for the quorum call be rescinded.
  ThePRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Mr. President, Irise to strongly oppose this 
legislation concerning a waiver for General Mattis.
  I know that all of my colleagues on theArmed Services Committee who 
just left the hearing on this very topic with General Mattis and this 
entire body take theoversight role of our committee very seriously. We 
take civilian control of the military as a fundamental 
constitutionalprinciple of the Founding Fathers. Even George Washington 
put aside his commission 5 years before he became our Commander inChief 
and became the President of the United States. When Congress in 1947 
debated the National Security Act to create theDepartment of Defense 
and create the Secretary of Defense, they decided to imbue this idea of 
civilian control into theSecretary of Defense by law, by mandating that 
he had to be separated from the military at least 10 years before 
taking on therole of Secretary of Defense, enshrining again this notion 
that civilian control is so important to our democracy and ourAmerican 
values.
  On Tuesday, the Armed Services Committee had a very compelling 
hearing. We had two experts testify aboutthe reasons for civilian 
control and why they are still so important today. The importance of 
having a Secretary of Defense whobrings a civilian perspective to this 
position and brings with him or her a breadth of views and experience--
those views comingfrom a civilian are very important.
  Second, they said it is very important not to politicize our officer 
ranks, meaning oursenior, top military advisers jockeying for the next 
job as a political appointee. That undermines the functioning of 
themilitary, and they testified about countries where it has had such 
deleterious effects.
  The third reason is concern aboutbias toward one service or another. 
Arguably, if one comes from a particular service, one may have 
preferences innately for thatbranch of service, which could undermine 
the strength of our military.
  The fourth reason, which is really important intoday's world, is the 
desire to model civilian control for other countries around the world 
that are struggling to become moredemocratic, less autocratic, and less 
militarily run.
  Those are the four reasons given as to why civilian control of 
themilitary is so important. Dr. Cohen and Dr. Hicks both agreed--
despite those four reasons--that from their perspective, it shouldbe 
abrogated. Dr. Cohen said it was because the characteristics of the 
incoming administration gave him such concern that heneeded to have 
someone like General Mattis and thought the qualities of General Mattis 
were important. Even Dr. Hicks said itwas the qualities of General 
Mattis that were so unique and important, but she very importantly 
said: Never, though, should wesay that it is time for a general to be 
the Secretary of Defense. In her perspective, it should never be that 
you need ageneral. So for her it was not the exigencies of 
circumstances; it was the specific characteristics of General Mattis.
  Overwhelmingly, the Senators and the Members of the Armed Services 
Committee, myself included, have expressed enormousgratitude for the 
extraordinary service of General Mattis. That is not in debate. But if 
there is no civilian in all the worldas of today at this moment who 
could meet the needs of the incoming administration, then who is to say 
that there will be nocivilian in the future who could meet the needs of 
this administration, should they need another Secretary of Defense, or 
thenext administration?
  What we are doing today, inadvertently, because of a cherished notion 
we have toward this one nominee,is subverting the standard, and, in 
fact, this exception now can swallow the whole rule. If we are 
literally saying an exceptioncould be made because of the nature of an 
administration and the nature of a nominee, we have literally swallowed 
the rule.
  I think it is a historic mistake. I truly believe we are about to 
unwind something that has served this country well for thepast 50 
years. We are about to unwind it. Interestingly, the last time the 
Congress unwound it, they said: Never again.
  Theydidn't say: If you have an urgency as we have now, which was the 
concern, according to these experts, that World War III waslooming, the 
concern that we needed a well-known, well-loved general because of all 
the foreign policy worries of the momentwith North Korea; they said: 
Never again.
  I don't know why we are here. I really don't know why--because it is 
not thestandard.
  Now this is the world we are going to live in. President-Elect Trump 
will mainly have his foreign policy inputfrom two four-star generals 
and a three-star general. So where is the diversity of opinion coming 
from? Where is that balancegoing to come from, the No. 1 reason the 
experts gave for why we have civilian control of the military--
Tillerson?
  EvenGeneral Marshall, if we remember history correctly, had the 
experience of being a former Secretary of State and head of the 
RedCross, so he had civilian experience in addition to his military 
experience. Civilian control has very important constitutionalreasons 
based on our democratic values, the balance of power, and how our 
democracy runs. Those principles are being gutted andignored. We are 
not using the right standards, and I think it is a historic mistake.
  As I stated, this has nothing to dowith our particular nominee. These 
principles exist for a reason. It has enabled our country's success for 
decades and has keptour democracy safe. If we take this change in our 
laws lightly, as we are about to do today, when future Congresses--or 
even thissame Congress 2 or 3 year from now--look at this and want to 
make the same exception, it will be much easier to do.
  I willcontinue to oppose this waiver for any nominee who is not a 
civilian or who has not met the waiting period that is required bylaw, 
and I urge all of my colleagues to do the same. I urge them to vote no.
  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, today I wish to support the legislative 
waiver required forretired General James Mattis to become the next 
Secretary of Defense.
  The principle of civilian control of the military hasbeen fundamental 
to the concept of American Government since the inception of our 
Republic. It was the Continental Congress thatgranted General George 
Washington his commission, and General Washington reported to that 
legislative body throughout the entirewar.

[[Page S302]]

  At the conclusion of the war, General Washington was the most popular 
and important figure in America. He easilycould have positioned himself 
as the leader of the American government and, in fact, was urged to do 
so by many. Instead,General Washington famously resigned his commission 
on December 23, 1783, thus firmly establishing the principle that, in 
thisnew country, ultimate authority over the Armed Forces would rest 
with democratically elected civilians. General Washington'snoble act 
was the foundation of such an important tenet of our democracy that the 
scene is depicted in a magnificent painting byJohn Trumbull, which 
occupies a prominent position in the rotunda of the United States 
Capitol.
  The principle of civiliancontrol of the military was at the center of 
the debate when the structure of our Armed Forces was dramatically 
reorganizedafter World War II. A congressional consensus emerged from 
the military readiness failures of Pearl Harbor that the modern 
worldrequired a more significant standing military force with a more 
centralized command structure. But harkening back to theprecedent 
established by George Washington, it was imperative that this new 
structure have civilian leadership. This wasespecially concerning at 
the time, given the number of remarkable generals who had deservedly 
attained heroic status in the eyesof the American public and the free 
world. Thus, in 1947, Congress passed section 202 of the National 
Security Act, whichprovided that the Secretary of Defense needed to 
have at least a 10-year gap, later reduced to 7, from any 
militaryservice.
  Since that time, 16 of the past 24 Defense Secretaries have had some 
prior military service. If approved, however,Gen. Mattis would only be 
the second Defense Secretary to receive a congressional waiver of the 
law--the other being GeneralGeorge Marshall in 1950.
  In order to examine this important history and review the wisdom of 
granting a waiver for Gen.Mattis, the Senate Armed Services Committee 
held a hearing exploring the issue of civilian control of the Armed 
Forces. Aftercarefully reviewing the testimony from those hearings, I 
do support making an additional, one-time exception to the law in 
thespecific case of James Mattis.
  In 1950, the world was a tumultuous place, with a hot war in Korea 
coupled with theextraordinary risks associated with a growing cold war 
in the nuclear age. President Truman turned to General Marshall to 
serveas Secretary of Defense because his noted character and 
competence, combined with his experience and ability, made him an 
idealfit for the unique challenges presented at that time.
  Today the world is again a tumultuous place. The combination of 
thethreat from terrorist organizations like ISIS and al Qaeda, as well 
as the threats emanating from countries such as Iran, NorthKorea, 
Russia, and China, has heightened tensions around the globe. And all 
our international challenges today take placeagainst the backdrop of 
the knowledge that the world has a large and aging nuclear arsenal that 
could quickly create chaos inthe wrong hands.
  As was the case with Gen. Marshall, Gen. Mattis, with his exceptional 
character and competence and hisremarkable skills and ability, is a fit 
for these dangerous times.
  Over the course of his 44-year career in the Marine Corps,Gen. Mattis 
has earned a reputation as a warrior and commander who is beloved by 
soldiers and veterans alike. The ``warriormonk,'' as he is known in 
military circles, is a voracious reader and a student of history. He 
has served as a militarycommander at all levels and all over the world. 
His assignments have included a combat deployment during the Persian 
Gulf Warsand difficult leadership posts in both Operation Enduring 
Freedom in Afghanistan and Operation Iraqi Freedom, where 
Mattiscommanded the 1St Marine Division in the city of Fallujah.
  His work over the past decade has demonstrated a deep appreciationfor 
the challenges our country faces today. In 2006, Mattis coauthored the 
military's counterinsurgency manual with then-ArmyGeneral David 
Petraeus. As an expert in counterinsurgency, Mattis understands the 
crucial role military power plays inconjunction with other civil 
instruments of national power, including diplomatic and economic 
efforts.
  Between 2007 and 2010,while serving as commander of the now 
disestablished U.S. Joint Forces Command, Mattis gained experience in 
broad DOD policy andmanagement at an organization focused on the 
transformation of U.S. military capabilities.
  In 2010, I supported Gen. Mattis'snomination to serve as commander of 
U.S. Central Command, where he oversaw the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan 
and was responsiblefor an area which includes Syria, Iran, and Yemen. 
His experience at CENTCOM is a tremendous asset in developing a 
coherentstrategy to address the threats posed by state actors and 
terrorist networks in the region and elsewhere around the world.
  In2015, he testified before the Senate Armed Services Committee on 
the United States' global challenges and offered insight to 
thecommittee on crafting a coherent, bipartisan national security 
strategy with an eye towards international diplomacy andalliances, 
defense budgeting, and military force size and capabilities.
  Last year, he coedited a book on civil-militaryrelations that 
explored the growing cultural gap between civilian society and the 
military, as well as the impact this lack ofunderstanding may have on 
the civilian-military relationship.
  Finally,I would note that Gen. Mattis has the support of threevery 
capable and successful former Secretaries of Defense whose careers were 
either largely or entirely in the civilianworkforce. Secretaries Cohen, 
Panetta, and Gates know as well as anyone what it takes to succeed in 
that position and theimportance of civilian leadership of the military. 
Their unqualified support of Gen. Mattis carries considerable weight 
with meand further convinces me that, in this particular circumstance, 
a waiver is warranted.
  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, civilian control of our military is one of 
the bedrockprinciples of American self-government. The National 
Security Act of 1947, U.S.C. Title 10 Section 113(a), stipulates that 
anindividual ``may not be appointed as Secretary of Defense within 
seven years after relief from active duty as a commissionedofficer of a 
regular component of an armed force.'' President-Elect Donald Trump's 
choice of retired U.S. Marine Corps GeneralJames N. Mattis violates 
that provision since he has only been out of the uniform for 3 years; 
thus, Congress will need to passa waiver so that he can serve if 
confirmed.
  I have considered this issue carefully, and I have listened to Gen. 
Mattis'stestimony earlier today before the Senate Armed Services 
Committee. I believe Gen. Mattis is committed to the principle 
ofcivilian control of the military. I was reassured by his testimony 
this morning, and I will vote to grant the waiver. There is aprecedent: 
in 1950, the Senate voted to confirm General George C. Marshall's as 
Secretary of Defense, despite the fact that hehad been retired for only 
5 years. Former Secretaries of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld, Robert M. 
Gates, and Leon E. Panetta haveexpressed bipartisan support for Gen. 
Mattis. I am willing to vote for the waiver, as long as one nomination 
does not turn intoa trend. There are particular times and circumstances 
in which granting the waiver may be appropriate, but the bedrock 
principleof civilian control of our military must not be eroded.
  Mr. VANHOLLEN. Mr. President, I oppose changing the law to allow a 
recently retired general to serve as Secretary of Defense. While 
Iadmire Gen, Mattis and I am grateful for his decades of service to our 
Nation, I believe that, except in a national emergency,we should abide 
by the longstanding principle of civilian control of the military 
enshrined in the National SecurityAct.
  Civilian control of the military is a fundamental tenet of our 
American democracy. It was in Annapolis, MD that GeneralGeorge 
Washington resigned his military commission in 1783, after leading the 
Continental Army to secure America's independence.Washington believed 
that our new Nation could survive only with civilian leadership. Five 
years later, Washington returned toserve the Nation, as a civilian, as 
our first President. George Washington's example has been embodied in 
the statutoryrequirements of the National Security Act.

[[Page S303]]

  George C. Marshall, nominated by President Truman in 1950, was the 
onlySecretary of Defense for whom Congress enacted an exception. In 
enacting the exception for General Marshall, Congress 
expresslyemphasized that:
  ``the authority granted by this Act is not to be construed as 
approval by the Congress of continuingappointments of military men to 
the office of Secretary of Defense in the future. It is hereby 
expressed as the sense of theCongress that after General Marshall 
leaves the office of secretary of defense, no additional appointments 
of military men tothat office shall be approved.''
  Congress should not cavalierly disregard the principle of civilian 
leadership of ourmilitary. I have no doubt that President-Elect Trump 
was briefed on the National Security Act's requirement, but chose 
toproceed notwithstanding the law and our Nation's tradition. 
President-Elect Trump's lack of regard for this law and theprinciple of 
civilian control of the military should be a matter of concern.
  Our Founders' emphasis on civilian leadershipdistinguished the young 
United States from the other nations of the time. It remains an 
important bulwark of our democracytoday.
  My vote today is not against Gen. Mattis. It is a vote to uphold an 
important principle of our American democracy.Should Congress vote to 
waive this law at this moment in time, I will review the nomination of 
Gen. Mattis on its individualmerits.
  Mrs. GILLIBRAND. I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  ThePRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Perdue.) The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorumcall be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Sasse). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


                            ObamaCare Repeal

  Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, several years ago, Democrats in 
Congresspulled out all the stops to pass the so-called Affordable Care 
Act and force the system we now call ObamaCare on the Americanpeople. 
They passed the law on a purely partisan basis and without any regard 
for public opinion. Quite simply, it was one ofthe most blatant 
exercises in pure partisanship in our Nation's history. It deepened 
partisan divides in Washington and aroundthe country and contributed to 
the cynicism many have about whether their government is actually 
paying attention to theirneeds. Worst of all, in the years since the 
passage of ObamaCare, the American people have been paying the price in 
the form ofskyrocketing costs, fewer choices, burdensome mandates, and 
unfair taxes.
  For 7 years, many of us in Congress--virtually allof us on the 
Republican side--have been working to right what has gone wrong under 
the Affordable Care Act. We have pledged toour constituents that, given 
the opportunity, we would repeal ObamaCare and replace it with reforms 
more worthy of the Americanpeople. Those promises are among the biggest 
reasons why we Republicans are now fortunate enough to find ourselves 
in control ofCongress and, very soon, the White House.
  Last night we took a big step in the effort to repeal and replace 
ObamaCare. Withthe budget resolution passed, many in Washington and in 
the media are talking about what happens next. We are hearing a lot 
ofdiscussion about the timing of our repeal-and-replace efforts, with 
some arguing that we should hit the brakes and solve everyproblem in 
advance of taking another vote. My view is that the repeal of ObamaCare 
cannot wait. The American people need us toact now. While there is 
still some debate as to what our replacement plan should look like, a 
majority of Senators voted lastnight to give us the tools to take the 
next steps to repeal and replace ObamaCare. The American people have 
entrusted us withthe power to do just that.
  We could spend the next several months coming up with more slogans 
and analogies, but this is nota campaign. The elections have been won, 
and it is time to do what our constituents have sent us here to do. I 
am not saying weneed to put off the replacement effort. On the 
contrary, I think it is important that the legislation we draft 
pursuant to thebudget reconciliation instructions include as many 
sensible health reforms as possible, keeping in mind the limitations 
thatexist with our rules and the necessary vote count.
  We should definitely work on making the largest possible downpayment 
onthe ObamaCare replacement with the budget reconciliation bill. That 
downpayment should include measures that give individualsand families 
more control over their health care decisions and empower States to do 
more of the heavy lifting when it comes toregulating health care. In 
addition, we need to provide for a smooth transition period so we can 
maintain some stability in thehealth insurance markets and ensure that 
we are not leaving Americans who have insurance under the current 
system out in thecold.
  As chairman of one of the primary committees with jurisdiction over 
these matters, I have been working closely with myHouse counterparts--
Chairman Kevin Brady of the House Ways and Means Committee and Chairman 
Greg Walden of the HouseEnergy and Commerce Committee--to develop 
proposals on the matters that fall within our purviews. We have been 
talking withstakeholders throughout the country and working through the 
various problems that exist. That work will continue unabated as wework 
on the immediate repeal effort and into the future. I am quite certain 
that my friend who chairs the Senate HELP Committeehas been similarly 
engaged in addressing the draconian insurance regulations that were 
imposed under ObamaCare, as well as theother parts of the law that are 
within that committee's jurisdiction.
  In other words, the work to replace ObamaCare isongoing, and we hope 
to have some initial elements ready to include in the budget 
reconciliation package. That work willcontinue once the repeal has been 
passed and signed into law so that we can help ensure that affordable 
health care optionsexist for Americans. We do not need to wait until 
every single replacement measure is drafted and agreed upon before 
movingforward. Instead, we need the incoming administration to add to 
our current efforts and work with us to produce a fullreplacement plan 
and then to execute it. I look forward to continuing to work with 
President-Elect Trump and his team.
  Thepath forward on replacing ObamaCare could end up taking many 
forms. We could draft and pass a series of limited reforms toreplace 
ObamaCare piece by piece or we could pull together a full and 
comprehensive replacement package that puts all thenecessary changes 
into law at once. I think there are merits and potential pitfalls with 
either approach. That is something weneed to consider as we move 
forward, but it is not a decision that needs to be made before we can 
keep the promises we all madeto our constituents to repeal ObamaCare.
  To be sure, replacing ObamaCare is going to be a difficult process; 
however, with anew and more cooperative administration in place, I have 
every confidence we can accomplish these important objectives 
withoutimposing artificial deadlines or goalposts or putting the repeal 
process on hold. All of this is possible so long as we remaincommitted 
to the principles that have guided most of our efforts thus far. For 
example, in my view, the new reforms need to bepatient-centered, not 
government-driven. They need to recognize the reality of the 
marketplace and the benefits of competition.Perhaps most importantly, 
any suitable reforms need to put the States back in charge of 
regulating and overseeing health carepolicy. If the ObamaCare 
experience has taught us anything, it is that when the Federal 
Government gets a hold of something thatis as consequential as health 
care, it will overpromise results, overstep its authority, and 
overregulate the subject matter.
  As I have said a number of times, Utah is not California or 
Massachusetts, and California and Massachusetts are not Utah.All of our 
States face different challenges and have different needs. There is no 
reason to begin with the premise that anysingle approach to health care 
policy is what is best for the entire country. That is why I, along 
with several of mycolleagues, have been engaging with stakeholders at 
the State level for quite some time as we work to craft reforms and to 
putthem in place. For example, next week the Senate Finance

[[Page S304]]

Committee is hosting a roundtable discussion on Medicaid withsome of 
the most prominent Governors in the country. I am pleased that Energy 
and Commerce chairman Greg Walden will joinus for the discussion as 
well. This meeting and others like it will give States the opportunity 
to detail the challenges theyface and how we can empower them to meet 
those challenges instead of dictating solutions from offices here in 
Washington, DC.
  I believe all of my colleagues want to be judicious and methodical 
with this undertaking. No one wants to act recklessly anddo even more 
damage to our Nation's health care system. Discussions and debates over 
the substance of our ObamaCare replacementshould continue. As I said, 
they have been going on for some time now, and they are not going to 
stop. But after last night, wehave the tools we need to take the first 
major step in this effort by repealing ObamaCare. In my view, we need 
to take that stepnow.
  Republicans are united in our desire to repeal ObamaCare. We have the 
support of the American people to do just that,and I personally will do 
all I can to deliver on that promise. I hope our friends on the other 
side will work with us. If theywill, I think we can come up with an 
approach toward health care that not only will work but will be better 
for our country butmost importantly, better for our citizens, better 
for the States that will manage a lot better than we will here, and 
better forour citizens within those States.
  Mr. President, I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Perdue). The Senatorfrom Rhode Island.
  Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss S. 84, a bill that 
wouldprovide a one-time exception from the longstanding law that 
requires a member of the military to be retired from the armedservices 
for at least 7 years before being appointed as Secretary of Defense. We 
areconsidering this legislation today because the President-elect's 
nominee for Secretary of Defense, General James Mattis, hasonly been 
retired from the U.S. Marine Corps for 3 years.

  In considering the unique situation presented by this nomination,this 
week the Armed Services Committee held two hearings. The first hearing, 
on Tuesday, had a panel of two excellent outsidewitnesses who discussed 
the history of the retirement restriction law and the benefits and 
challenges of legislating anexception to that law. Then, this morning, 
the committee held a nomination hearing with General Mattis and 
examined his views ona wide range of defense challenges facing our 
country and the Defense Department.
  General Mattis has a long anddistinguished military career, and he is 
recognized by his peers as a thoughtful and strategic thinker. However, 
since itspassage in 1947, the statutory requirement designed to protect 
civilian control of the Armed Forces has only been waived oneother 
time. Therefore, I believe it is extremely important that we carefully 
consider the consequences of setting aside the lawand the implications 
such a decision may have on the future of civilian and military 
relations.
  Civilian control of themilitary is enshrined in our Constitution and 
dates back to George Washington and the Revolutionary War. This 
principle hasdistinguished our Nation from many other countries around 
the world, and it has helped ensure that our democracy remains in 
thehands of the people.
  The National Security Act of 1947, which established the Department 
of Defense, included a provisionprohibiting any individual ``within ten 
years'' of ``active duty as a commissioned officer in a regular 
component of the armedservices'' from being appointed as the Secretary 
of Defense. However, in 1950, President Harry Truman nominated former 
Secretaryof State and former Chief of Staff of the United States Army 
General George Marshall to serve as the Secretary of Defense, 
thuscausing Congress to pass an exception to the statute.
  While Congress ultimately waived the restriction for General 
Marshall,the law included a nonbinding section that stated: ``It is 
hereby expressed as the intent of the Congress that the 
authoritygranted by this Act is not to be construed as approval by the 
Congress of the continuing appointments of military men to theoffice of 
Secretary of Defense in the future. It is hereby expressed as the sense 
of the Congress that after General Marshallleaves the office of the 
Secretary of Defense, no additional appointments of military men to 
that office shall be approved.''
  Nearly 70 years later, Congress again must make a determination if an 
exception should be made in the case of GeneralMattis. Let me remind my 
colleagues why making this change is so significant. During our 
committee hearings, Dr. Kathleen Hicksastutely noted: ``The Defense 
Secretary position is unique in our system. Other than the President 
acting as commander in chief,the Secretary of Defense is the only 
civilian official in the operational chain of command to the Armed 
Forces. Unlike thePresident, however, he or she is not an elected 
official.''
  As I stated during the committee's consideration of the 
waiverlegislation, we must be very cautious about any actions, 
including this legislation, that may inadvertently politicize our 
ArmedForces. During this past Presidential election cycle, both 
Democrats and Republicans came dangerously close to compromising 
thenonpartisan nature of our military with the nominating convention 
speeches from recently retired general officers advocating fora 
candidate for President.
  I am also concerned about providing a waiver for General Mattis in 
light of the fact that he willjoin other recently retired senior 
military officers who have been selected for high-ranking national 
security positions in theTrump Administration. Throughout our Nation's 
history, retired general officers have often held positions at the 
highest levelsof government as civilians. In fact, a few have even been 
elected President.
  What concerns me, however, is the total numberof retired senior 
military officers chosen by the President-elect to lead organizations 
critical to our national security andthe cumulative affect it may have 
on our overall national security policy. Specifically, there may be 
unintended consequenceshaving so many senior leaders with similar 
military backgrounds crafting policy and making decisions as weighty as 
those facingthe next administration.
  In the course of our review of General Mattis' nomination, the reason 
most often cited in supportof a waiver allowing him to serve is that a 
retired four-star general known for his war-fighting skills and 
strategic judgmentto lead the Department of Defense will counterbalance 
the President-elect's lack of defense and foreign policy experience. 
AsTom Ricks wrote recently in The New York Times: ``Usually I'd oppose 
having a generalas Secretary of Defense, because it could undermine our 
tradition of civilian control of the military. But these are not 
normaltimes.''

  Likewise, Dr. Eliot Cohen testified before the Senate Armed Services 
Committee earlier this week, and he argued thatif it weren't for his 
deep concern about the Trump Administration, he would oppose the waiver 
for General Mattis. Specifically,he stated: ``There is no question in 
my mind that a Secretary Mattis would be a stabilizing and moderating 
force . . . and overtime, helping to steer American foreign and 
security policy in a sound and sensible direction.''
  If Congress provides anexception for General Mattis, we must be 
mindful of the precedent that action sets for such waivers in the 
future. Therestriction was enacted into law for good reason, and 
General George Marshall is the only retired military officer to 
receivethis exception.
  Based on General Mattis' testimony this morning, as well as his 
decades of distinguished service in the U.S.Marine Corps, and weighing 
all of the other factors, I will support a waiver for him to serve as 
Secretary of Defense. GeneralMattis testified to the fact that the role 
of Congress does not end with the passage of this legislation. As Dr. 
Hicks stated,``The United States Congress, the nation's statutes and 
courts, the professionalism of our Armed Forces, and the will of 
thepeople are critical safeguards against any perceived attempts to 
fundamentally alter the quality of civilian control of themilitary in 
this country.''
  Any of us who support this bill have a profound duty to ensure that 
the Department of Defense andits leaders,

[[Page S305]]

both civilian and military, are following and protecting the principles 
upon which this country isfounded.
  Let me be very clear. I will not support a waiver for any future 
nominees under the incoming administration orfuture administrations. I 
view this as a generational exception, as our bipartisan witnesses 
recommended. I would ask that mycolleagues on both sides of the aisle 
make this same commitment. Indeed, I intend to propose reestablishing 
the original 10-yearban which was in place when the Defense Department 
was established. Restoring the threshold for service to 10 years would 
send astrong signal that this principle of civilian control of the 
military is essential to our Democratic system of government.
  Atthis point I would ask if the chairman of the committee might 
engage in a colloquy. I do that first by thanking him for 
theextraordinarily fair, thoughtful, and careful way he has guided this 
nomination through the committee and here to thefloor.
  I wish to thank the Senator from Arizona for the thoughtful and 
thorough process we have had in considering thenomination of General 
Mattis. I think one of the high points was a hearing on civilian 
military relations with Eliot Cohen andKathleen Hicks. Both witnesses 
emphasized that while they supported this waiver, it should be a rare, 
generational exceptionto ensure the integrity of civilian control of 
our military, which is the bedrock of our democracy.
  I agree wholeheartedlywith that assessment, and I would ask the 
chairman if he also agrees with that assessment.
  Mr.McCAIN. Mr. President, I would say that I also agree. I want to 
thank the Senator from Rhode Island for his leadership, andI want to 
thank him for setting the tenor and the environment that surrounds the 
Armed Services Committee, which resulted in the24-to-3 vote today in 
the Armed Services Committee. Because of the relationship that we have, 
but also because of hisleadership, we have a very bipartisan committee, 
which is vital to maintain, considering the awesome responsibilities 
wehold.
  The Senator from Rhode Island has displayed time after time a 
willingness to work together for the good of the country.I think this 
is the latest example, even though he had significant reservations--
which are valid--concerning the short period oftransition from wearing 
the uniform to holding down the highest civilian position as far as 
defense of the Nation is concerned.I know he didn't reach this 
conclusion without a lot of thought, a lot of study, a lot of--as he 
has displayed--references tohistory; reasons for the origination of 
this legislation, which requires 7 years before an individual is 
eligible to beSecretary of Defense after leaving the military.
  So I just wanted to thank the Senator from Rhode Island, and I look 
forwardto an overwhelming vote.
  Mr. President, could I ask the parliamentary situation as it is right 
now.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER.The Senate is considering S. 84 with 10 hours 
equally divided.
  Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, hasa time been set for the vote?
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. There is not yet an order for the vote.
  Mr.REED. Mr. President, I believe I have the floor.
  Mr. McCAIN. I yield to my friend from RhodeIsland.
  Mr. REED. Mr. President, I believe the chairman does concur with me 
regarding the fact thatthis is a rare and generational exception; I 
think that is fair to say.
  Mr. McCAIN. Mr.President, is it accurate to say that 2:45 p.m. is a 
time that is being seriously considered?
  Mr.REED. We hope so, and I think, if we recognize Senator Merkley for 
his comments, and then I think the chairman of thecommittee has 
comments, we would be on that schedule.
  Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I askunanimous consent that I be allowed 5 
minutes prior to the vote, if the time of the vote is set, and the 
Senator from RhodeIsland be given 5 minutes prior to that, in the case 
of the time of the vote being set.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is thereobjection?
  Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr.McCAIN. Mr. President, I yield the floor.
  Mr. REED. Mr. President, I believe I still retainthe floor.
  Let me make the point that I appreciate very much the Senator from 
Arizona allowing me 5 minutes, but I willyield that 5 minutes so that 
at the end, the Senator from Arizona would have 5 minutes, and then I 
would suggest we recognizeSenator Merkley so that we can conduct the 
vote at 2:45 p.m.
  Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President,I would like to modify my unanimous consent 
request that I be allowed 5 minutes prior to the vote.


                           Order of Procedure

  Before I do that, however, I ask unanimous consent that the time 
until 2:45 p.m. be equally dividedbetween the managers or their 
designees, and that following the use or yielding back of that time, 
the bill be read a thirdtime, and the Senate vote on passage of S. 84; 
further, that following the disposition of S. 84, the Senate recess 
subject tothe call of the Chair for the all-Members briefing.
  So I would ask the Senator from Oregon how much time he needs.
  Mr. MERKLEY. Less than 10 minutes.
  Mr. McCAIN. Mr.President, I am asking for a ruling on the unanimous 
consent request I just made.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I add to that unanimousconsent request 
that I be given the final 5 minutes before the vote.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Withoutobjection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. REED. Mr. President, I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER.The Senator from Oregon.
  Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, we have a longstanding tradition in 
ourcountry of civilian control of government and civilian control of 
the military. This was first symbolized by George Washingtonthrough his 
act of resigning as Commander in Chief for all of the Continental Army 
on December 23, 1783. It is a tradition, or amoment in time, that is 
preserved on the walls of the Rotunda where a mural depicts 
Washington's noble and selfless act.
  Ourearly days were full of the warnings of a standing Army and of 
ongoing military control at high levels, and those ideas camefrom 
Thomas Jefferson and from Alexander Hamilton and from Samuel Adams. 
When we came to the point in our history where werealized that a 
continuing military force was necessary, we preserved the importance of 
civilian control.
  We did so for ahost of important reasons, which others have pointed 
out on this floor but I think are worth restating. It is important to 
havea Secretary of Defense who brings a broad world view that includes 
a civilian perspective to the position.
  Second, it isimportant not to politicize our officer ranks and have 
them essentially competing to position themselves to hold this 
positionof Secretary of Defense.
  Third, we do not want the services competing against each other in 
order to hold this position.This is why the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
position is rotated on a specific schedule. And if we have a Secretary 
of Defense comefrom one military service, then another branch of 
service is going to say: Next time it should be our turn. The Marine 
Corpstoday, the Air Force tomorrow, the Army after that, and then the 
Navy. That is not the position we want to end up in.
  Wealso know that across the world, countries wrestle with preserving 
civilian control; that is, preserving democratic republics inthe face 
of the power of military machinery in their country, military 
organizations, and we see military coups and we seemassive military 
influence.
  It has been the desire of our country to model a republic that isof 
the people, by the people, and for the people, not a nation that 
becomes controlled by a massive concentration of power inthe military. 
Now my colleagues--many of whom are very learned in the history of our 
country--have arisen to say that there is aset of special 
circumstances, a unique set of circumstances, that merit an exception, 
and they note that there was an exceptiononce before in our history. 
That exception was the appointment of George C. Marshall to become 
Secretary of Defense in the timefollowing

[[Page S306]]

World War II. But think about how many circumstances we face in the 
world that can be put forward to be anexceptional time. It was 
exceptional when terrorists used planes to attack the Twin Towers in 
New York City and our Pentagon,and had not one plane gone down, the 
additional target may have been the Capitol or the White House. That 
was an exceptionalmoment. It is an exceptional moment when we are 
fighting Al Qaeda. It is an exceptional moment when we are fighting 
ISIS. It isan exceptional moment when Russia invades Ukraine and takes 
over Crimea. There is an exceptional moment almost continuously inthe 
face of a complex and changing world.
  So I stand on the side of maintaining the principle of civilian 
control. Each timewe violate this principle, it is easier next time to 
say: It has been done before. But the conversation will not be ``We did 
itonce half a century ago, and so we should do it again,'' it will be 
``We did it twice, once quite recently when we weren'tfacing a world 
crisis. Nobody had invaded the United States. We had not just lost a 
couple hundred thousand folks fighting forour country in a world war.'' 
So the conversation will get easier and more fragile, and that is not 
the direction we should go.
  It was Eisenhower who warned about the overreach of a military 
enterprise--the ``military industrial complex,'' as hereferred to it. 
But one piece of our structure of government that has held back is to 
maintain that principle of civiliancontrol. Can anyone in this room 
rise up and say that out of the thousands of experienced individuals 
who have both nationalsecurity experience and civilian experience, 
there isn't one who currently meets either the 10- or 7-year standard 
ofseparation? I am sure there are hundreds who could meet that 
standard.
  So here we are. If we could send a message to thePresident-elect: We 
reject your effort to eviscerate civilian control. Send us someone who 
is qualified. And if we feel thatperson is so far out of the reach of 
reason--which is what I have been hearing from my colleagues in private 
conversation,terrified that this President-elect will nominate somebody 
who basically is unhinged, that we have to seize on this moment totake 
this individual because this body won't have the courage to turn down 
and reject an unhinged individual nominated by thisPresident-elect. 
That is a sad commentary on the leadership of this body. It is a sad 
commentary on what has become of the U.S.Senate that we wouldn't have 
the courage under our advice and consent power to turn down someone we 
saw as unfit. That is, infact, how we are charged under this 
Constitution, under the advice and consent clause. It was Hamilton who 
laid out that it isour responsibility to determine whether an 
individual is of fit character or unfit character, and we would retain 
that power forany nomination that, in the collective judgment of this 
body, did not meet that standard.
  So let's sustain the principle ofcivilian control and reject this 
change.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Arizona.
  Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, in response to the Senator from Oregon who 
asked if there werenot any people who were qualified to serve as 
Secretary of Defense, I am absolutely certain there are. Is there 
anyone asqualified as General Mattis? My answer to the Senator from 
Oregon is no. I have watched General Mattis for years. I have seenthe 
way that enlisted and officers react to his leadership. I have seen the 
scholarly approach he has taken to war and toconflict.
  I hope the Senator from Oregon will have at some point a chance to 
get to know him, and he will then appreciatethe unique qualities of 
leadership that are much needed in these times where the outgoing 
President of the United States hasleft the world in a state of chaos 
because of an absolute failure of leadership, which is disgraceful. We 
now see an outgoingPresident of the United States who in 2009 inherited 
a world that was not being torn apart in the Middle East. The Chinese 
werenot acting assertively in the South China Sea. The Russians had not 
dismembered Ukraine and taken Crimea, in gross violation 
ofinternational law. All of those things have come about because of his 
presidency.
  So now he comes to the floor and objectsto one of the most highly 
qualified individuals and leaders in military history. I say to the 
Senator from Oregon: You arewrong.
  I believe the overwhelming majority of this body will repudiate and 
cancel out his uninformed remarks.
  Mr.President, in a few minutes we will vote on a historic piece of 
legislation. For just the second time in seven decades, thelegislation 
before us would provide an exception to the law preventing any person 
from serving as Secretary of Defense within 7years of Active-Duty 
service as a regular commissioned officer of the Armed Forces. This 
legislation would allow Gen. JamesMattis--the President-elect's 
selection for Secretary of Defense, who retired from the Marine Corps 3 
years ago--to serve in thatoffice.
  Earlier today, the Senate Armed Services Committee received testimony 
from General Mattis. Once again, hedemonstrated exceptional command of 
the issues confronting the United States, the Department of Defense, 
and our militaryservicemembers, but he also showed something else--that 
his understanding of civil-military relations is deep and that 
hiscommitment to civilian control of the Armed Forces is ironclad.
  General Mattis's character, judgment, and commitment todefending our 
Nation and its Constitution have earned him the trust of our next 
Commander in Chief, Members of Congress on bothsides of the aisle, and 
so many who are serving in our Armed Forces. General Mattis is an 
exceptional public servant worthy ofthe exceptional consideration. That 
is why, directly following the conclusion of today's hearing, the 
Senate Armed ServicesCommittee reported this legislation to the Senate 
with an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 24 to 3--I repeat: with an 
overwhelmingvote of 24 to 3.
  I am not saying that members of the Armed Services Committee are 
smarter than the Senator from Oregon, butI am saying that members of 
the Armed Services Committee have scrutinized--both sides of the aisle, 
Republican and Democrat,including the ranking member--have looked at 
General Mattis. Many of us have known him for years and years, as he 
has shown theoutstanding characteristics of leadership that he has had 
the opportunity to display in his service to the country, and he 
wasvoted out by an overwhelming vote of 24 to 3. So obviously there are 
24 people on the Armed Services Committee who believe inGeneral Mattis 
and believe that this exception should be made, as opposed to 3 who 
share the view of the Senator from Oregon.
  Mr. MERKLEY. I ask my colleague from Arizona if he will yield for a 
question.
  Mr. McCAIN. That is why, directly following the conclusion of today's 
hearing, the Senate Armed ServicesCommittee reported this legislation 
to the Senate with a vote of 24 to 3. I urge this body to follow suit.
  That said, it isimportant for future Senators to understand the 
context of our action here today. Civilian control of the Armed Forces 
has beena bedrock principle of American Government since our 
Revolution. A painting hanging in the Capitol Rotunda not far from 
thisfloor celebrates the legacy of George Washington, who voluntarily 
resigned his commission as commander of the Continental Armyto the 
Congress. This principle is enshrined in our Constitution, which 
divides control of the Armed Forces among the Presidentas Commander in 
Chief and the Congress as coequal branches of government.
  Since then, Congress has adopted variousprovisions separating 
military and civilian positions. In the 19th century, for example, 
Congress prohibited an Army officerfrom accepting a civil office, more 
recently, in the National Security Act of 1947, and subsequent 
revisions, Congress's 7-year``cooling off'' period for any person to 
serve as Secretary of Defense. It was only 3 years later, in 1950, that 
Congressgranted GEN George Marshall an exemption to that law and the 
Senate confirmed him to be Secretary of Defense.
  Indeed, theseparation between civilian and military positions has not 
always been so clear. Twelve of our Nation's Presidents 
previouslyserved as generals in the Armed Forces, and over the years, 
numerous high-ranking civilian officials in the Department of

[[Page S307]]

Defense have had long careers in military service.
  The basic responsibilities of civilian and military leaders aresimple 
enough--for civilian leaders: to seek the best professional military 
advice while under no obligation to follow it; formilitary leaders: to 
provide candid counsel while recognizing civilians have the final say 
or, as General Mattis once observed,to insist on being heard and never 
insist on being obeyed. But the fact is that the relationship between 
civilian and militaryleaders is inherently and endlessly complex. It is 
a relationship of unequals who nonetheless share responsibility for 
thedefense of the Nation. The stakes could not be higher. The gaps in 
mutual understanding are sometimes wide. Personalities oftenclash. And 
the unique features of the profession of arms and the peculiarities of 
service cultures often prove daunting forcivilians who have never 
served in uniform.
  Ultimately, the key to healthy civil-military relations and civilian 
control ofthe military is the oath that soldiers and statesmen share in 
common ``to protect and defend the Constitution.'' It is about thetrust 
they have in one another to perform their respective duties in 
accordance with our republican system of government. It isabout the 
candid exchange of views engendered by that trust and which is vital to 
effective decisionmaking. And it is aboutmutual respect and 
understanding. The proper balance of civil-military relations is 
difficult to achieve, and, as history hastaught us, achieving that 
balance requires different leaders at different times.
  I believe that in the dangerous times inwhich we live, General Mattis 
is the leader our Nation needs as Secretary of Defense. That is why, 
although I believe we mustmaintain safeguards of civilian leadership at 
the Department of Defense, I will support this legislation today and 
GeneralMattis' nomination to serve this Nation again as Secretary of 
Defense.
  I want to assure my friend from Rhode Island, theranking member of 
the Armed Services Committee, who has very serious concerns--I want to 
assure him that this is a one-time deal.I know the Senator from Rhode 
Island had deep concerns about this whole process we have been through. 
Yet I think he has put theinterests of the Nation and placed his 
confidence in General Mattis as being so exceptional that the law that 
was passed back in1947--there can be made one single exception to it.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority's time has expired.
  The majorityleader.


                   Unanimous Consent Request--H.R. 72

  Mr.McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that at 4:15 
p.m. on Tuesday, January 17, the Committee on HomelandSecurity and 
Governmental Affairs be discharged and the Senate proceed to the 
consideration of H.R. 72; further, that there be30 minutes of debate 
equally divided in the usual form, and that upon the use or yielding 
back of time, the bill be read a thirdtime and the Senate vote on 
passage of H.R. 72 with no intervening action or debate; finally, that 
if passed, the motion toreconsider be considered made and laid upon the 
table with no intervening action or debate.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is thereobjection?
  Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, reserving the right to object.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Oregon.
  Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, Iagreed----
  Mr. McCAIN addressed the Chair.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Arizona.
  Mr. McCAIN. Has time expired according to the previous UC?
  Mr. MERKLEY. Mr.President, I believe I have the floor.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I believe I have thefloor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority leader has the floor.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Justto let everybody know, all I am doing is setting 
up a vote for Tuesday afternoon at 4:15. That is what I was asking 
consent on.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Mr. MERKLEY. I reserve the right to object.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Mr. MERKLEY. I reserve the right to object.
  Mr. President, I was very gracious in agreeing to a unanimous consent 
request that would grant me 10 minutes. That was cutshort by the 
filibuster of my colleague, who repeatedly brought me into the 
conversation and refused to yield for my question.So I ask unanimous to 
have 2 minutes to close.
  Mr. McCAIN. I object.
  The PRESIDINGOFFICER. Objection is heard.
  Is there objection to the majority leader's request?
  Mr.MERKLEY. I object.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection is heard.
  The majority leader.


                     Request for Committees to Meet

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I have four requestsfor committees to 
meet during today's session of the Senate. They have the approval of 
the majority and minority leaders.
  Mr. MERKLEY. I object.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Duly noted.
  The bill was ordered to beengrossed for a third reading and was read 
the third time.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The bill having been read the third time,the 
question is, Shall it pass?
  Mr. McCONNELL. I ask for the yeas and nays.
  ThePRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the 
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. Alexander) and theSenator from Kansas (Mr. 
Moran).
  Further, if present and voting, the Senator from Tennessee (Mr. 
Alexander) wouldhave voted ``yea.''
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Cassidy). Are there any other Senators in 
the Chamber desiring tovote?
  The result was announced--yeas 81, nays 17, as follows:

                      [Rollcall Vote No. 27 Leg.]

                                YEAS--81

     Barrasso
     Bennet
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Brown
     Burr
     Cantwell
     Capito
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Coons
     Corker
     Cornyn
     Cortez
     Masto
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Donnelly
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Feinstein
     Fischer
     Flake
     Franken
     Gardner
     Graham
     Grassley
     Harris
     Hassan
     Hatch
     Heinrich
     Heitkamp
     Heller
     Hirono
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Kaine
     Kennedy
     King
     Klobuchar
     Lankford
     Lee
     Manchin
     McCain
     McCaskill
     McConnell
     Menendez
     Murkowski
     Nelson
     Paul
     Perdue
     Peters
     Portman
     Reed
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Sasse
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Scott
     Sessions
     Shaheen
     Shelby
     Stabenow
     Sullivan
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Warner
     Whitehouse
     Wicker
     Young

                                NAYS--17

     Baldwin
     Blumenthal
     Booker
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Gillibrand
     Leahy
     Markey
     Merkley
     Murphy
     Murray
     Sanders
     Tester
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warren
     Wyden

                             NOT VOTING--2

     Alexander
     Moran
       
  The bill (S. 84) waspassed, as follows:

                                 S. 84

       Be it enacted by the Senate andHouse of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1.EXCEPTION TO LIMITATION AGAINST APPOINTMENT OF 
                   PERSONS AS SECRETARY OF DEFENSE WITHIN SEVEN 
                   YEARS OF RELIEF FROM ACTIVE DUTY ASREGULAR 
                   COMMISSIONED OFFICERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

       (a) In General.--Notwithstanding the second sentence of 
     section113(a) of title 10, United States Code, the first 
     person appointed, by and with the advice and consent of the 
     Senate, asSecretary of Defense after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act may be a person who is, on the date of 
     appointment, withinseven years after relief, but not within 
     three years after relief, from active duty as a commissioned 
     officer of a regularcomponent of the Armed Forces.
       (b) Limited Exception.--This section applies only to the 
     first person appointed asSecretary of Defense as described in 
     subsection (a) after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
     and to no other person.

                          ____________________



