

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 25 (Monday, February 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 25 (Monday, February 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1130-S1131]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

      By Mrs. FEINSTEIN:
  S. 357. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior to convey 
certain public lands in San Bernardino County, California, to the San 
Bernardino Valley Water Conservation District, and to accept in return 
certain exchanged non-public lands, and for other purposes; to the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
  Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I am pleased to reintroduce the Santa

[[Page S1131]]

Ana River Wash Plan Land Exchange Act. This legislation directs the 
Bureau of Land Management, BLM, to exchange land with the San 
Bernardino Valley Water Conservation District, the District, in San 
Bernardino, CA, as part of a regional land management plan.
  The bill is the culmination of years of collaboration between 
numerous Federal and State agencies, private industry, and 
municipalities representing mining, flood control, water supply and 
wildlife conservation, among other interests.
  Included among the supporters of this land exchange are county of San 
Bernardino; city of Redlands; city of Highland; San Bernardino Water 
Conservation District; San Bernardino Valley Municipal Water District: 
East Valley Water District; Endangered Habitats League; CEMEX 
Construction Materials Pacific; Robertson's Ready Mix and Inland Action
  In 1993, representatives from this diverse group formed the Wash 
Committee to address mining issues in the upper Santa Ana River wash 
area.
  The role of the committee subsequently expanded in 1997 to consider 
the broad range of land uses in the area, including natural resource 
conservation.
  The Wash Committee developed a strategy that focused best uses for 
more comprehensive planning and not on private property boundaries that 
would segment the area. The result is a forthcoming Land Management and 
Habitat Conservation Plan expected to cover 4,500 acres.
  This land exchange will take place in a designated region within the 
Santa Ana Wash, at the junction of the Santa Ana River and Mill Creek.
  Currently, land within the Santa Ana Wash is owned by both the 
District and BLM.
  The land parcels owned by the district are currently used for 
recharging the local groundwater aquifer through more than 77 basins 
and also provide critical Riversidian sage scrub habitat for a number 
of State and federally listed species. In addition, under this plan, 
new land would be set aside for conservation purposes near land already 
managed by BLM.
  The exchange of land between the district and BLM will connect a 
current patchwork of separately owned land parcels into a consolidated 
open space for conservation purposes and will optimize the efficiency 
of mining operations and water conservation efforts.
  The land transfer resulting from this legislation will lead to 
increased habitat protection, improved connectivity in the wildlife 
corridor, expanded groundwater recharge for water supply, and the 
future establishment of public access and trails.
  Additionally, the legislation will allow the continued use of land 
and mineral resources while maintaining the biological and hydrological 
resources of the area in an environmentally sensitive manner.
  I want to applaud diverse members of the Wash Committee that worked 
together, including the cities of Highland and Redlands, East Valley 
Water District, the County of San Bernardino, Robertson's Ready Mix, 
CEMEX, the San Bernardino Valley Municipal Water District, and the San 
Bernardino Valley Water Conservation District, along with the Federal, 
State and local stakeholders, for their continued efforts on the Wash 
Plan.
  This group has demonstrated that, while it takes significant time, 
funding, and cooperation, it is possible to simultaneously protect the 
environment and support local jobs, business, and community interests.
  I would also like to thank my colleagues, Representatives Paul Cook 
and Pete Aguilar, for introducing similar legislation in the House.
  I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass the Santa Ana 
River Wash Plan Land Exchange Act.

                          ____________________



