

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 37 (Thursday, March 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 37 (Thursday, March 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1578-S1579]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 27

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 27, a bill to establish 
an independent commission to examine and report on the facts regarding 
the extent of Russian official and unofficial cyber operations and 
other attempts to interfere in the 2016 United States national 
election, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 141

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 141, a bill to improve 
understanding and forecasting of space weather events, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 200

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 200, a bill to prohibit 
the conduct of a first-use nuclear strike absent a declaration of war 
by Congress.


                                 S. 232

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Illinois (Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 232, a bill to 
terminate the EB-5 Visa Program and to reallocate the employment 
creation visas to the other employment-based visa classifications.


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 236, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic 
beverages.


                                 S. 317

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) was added as a cosponsor of S. 317, a bill to provide 
taxpayers with an annual report disclosing the cost and performance of 
Government programs and areas of duplication among them, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 341

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Portman) and the Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 341, a bill to provide for congressional oversight of 
actions to waive, suspend, reduce, provide relief from, or otherwise 
limit the application of sanctions with respect to the Russian 
Federation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 356

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 356, a bill to amend 
title XXI of the Social Security Act to improve access to, and the 
delivery of, children's health services through school-based health 
centers, and for other purposes.

[[Page S1579]]

  



                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to amend the 
Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving through the mail 
shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and to 
require the provision of advance electronic information on shipments of 
mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and for other purposes.


                                 S. 405

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. 405, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the Higher Education Act of 1965 
to provide an exclusion from income for student loan forgiveness for 
students who have died or become disabled.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 407, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the railroad 
track maintenance credit.


                                 S. 413

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 413, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to prohibit prescription 
drug plan sponsors and MA-PD organizations under the Medicare program 
from retroactively reducing payment on clean claims submitted by 
pharmacies.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S. 445, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure more timely access to 
home health services for Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare 
program.


                                 S. 446

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Risch), the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Strange), the Senator from 
Alabama (Mr. Shelby) and the Senator from Alaska (Mr. Sullivan) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 446, a bill to allow reciprocity for the 
carrying of certain concealed firearms.


                                 S. 455

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 455, a bill to amend title XVIII 
of the Social Security Act to count resident time spent in a critical 
access hospital as resident time spent in a nonprovider setting for 
purposes of making Medicare direct and indirect graduate medical 
education payments.


                                 S. 461

  At the request of Mr. Heinrich, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 461, a bill to 
allow Homeland Security Grant Program funds to be used to safeguard 
faith-based community centers across the United States, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 469

  At the request of Mr. Sanders, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 469, a bill to amend the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to allow for the importation of 
affordable and safe drugs by wholesale distributors, pharmacies, and 
individuals.


                                 S. 473

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the names of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 473, a bill to amend title 38, United States 
Code, to make qualification requirements for entitlement to Post-9/11 
Education Assistance more equitable, to improve support of veterans 
receiving such educational assistance, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 487

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the names of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly), the Senator from Minnesota (Mr. Franken), the Senator 
from Kansas (Mr. Moran), the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Roberts) and the 
Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Thune) were added as cosponsors of S. 
487, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for 
an exclusion for assistance provided to participants in certain 
veterinary student loan repayment or forgiveness programs.


                              S.J. RES. 12

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the names of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy), the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds), 
the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Strange), the Senator from Kentucky (Mr. 
Paul), the Senator from South Carolina (Mr. Scott), the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker), the Senator from Utah (Mr. Lee) and the 
Senator from Idaho (Mr. Risch) were added as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 
12, a joint resolution disapproving the rule submitted by the 
Department of Defense, the General Services Administration, and the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration relating to the Federal 
Acquisition Regulation.

                          ____________________



