

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S315-S319]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          STATEMENTS ONINTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

      By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr. Tester):
  S. 117. A bill to designatea mountain peak in the State of Montana as 
``Alex Diekmann Peak''; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources.
  Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of 
the bill be printed inthe Record.
  There being no objection, the text of the bill was ordered to be 
printed in the Record, asfollows:

                                 S. 117

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     theUnited States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may becited as the ``Alex Diekmann Peak 
     Designation Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

       Congressfinds that Alex Diekmann--
       (1) was a loving father of two and an adoring husband who 
     lived in Bozeman, Montana, where he wasa renowned 
     conservationist who dedicated his career to protecting some 
     of the most outstanding natural and scenic resource areasof 
     the Northern Rockies;
       (2) was responsible during his unique conservation career 
     for the protection of more than 50distinct areas in the 
     States of Montana, Wyoming, and Idaho, conserving for the 
     public over 100,000 acres of iconic mountainsand valleys, 
     rivers and creeks, ranches and farms, and historic sites and 
     open spaces;
       (3) played a central role in securingthe future of an array 
     of special landscapes, including--
       (A) the spectacular Devil's Canyon in the Craig Thomas 
     SpecialManagement Area in the State of Wyoming;
       (B) crucial fish and wildlife habitat and recreation access 
     land in the SawtoothMountains of Idaho, along the Salmon 
     River, and near the Canadian border; and
       (C) diverse and vitally important land allacross the Crown 
     of the Continent in the State of Montana, from the world-
     famous Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem to GlacierNational Park 
     to the Cabinet-Yaak Ecosystem, to the recreational trails, 
     working forests and ranches, and critical drinkingwater 
     supply for Whitefish, and beyond;
       (4) made a particularly profound mark on the preservation 
     of the natural wonders inand near the Madison Valley and the 
     Madison Range, Montana, where more than 12 miles of the 
     Madison River and much of the world-class scenery, fish and 
     wildlife, and recreation opportunities of the area have 
     become and shall remain conserved and availableto the public 
     because of his efforts;
       (5) inspired others with his skill, passion, and spirit of 
     partnership that broughttogether communities, landowners, 
     sportsmen, and the public at large;
       (6) lost a heroic battle with cancer on February 1,2016, at 
     the age of 52;
       (7) is survived by his wife, Lisa, and their 2 sons, Logan 
     and Liam; and
       (8) leaves a lastinglegacy across Montana and the Northern 
     Rockies that will benefit all people of the United States in 
     our time and in thegenerations to follow.

     SEC. 3. DESIGNATION OF ALEX DIEKMANN PEAK, MONTANA.

       (a) InGeneral.--The unnamed 9,765-foot peak located 2.2 
     miles west-northwest of Finger Mountain on the western 
     boundary of the LeeMetcalf Wilderness, Montana (UTM 
     coordinates Zone 12, 457966 E., 4982589 N.), shall be known 
     and designated as ``Alex DiekmannPeak''.
       (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
     document, record, or other paper of the United Statesto the 
     peak described in subsection (a) shall be considered to be a 
     reference to ``Alex Diekmann Peak''.
                                 ______
                                 
      By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Inhofe, Mr.Cornyn, 
        Mr. Cruz, Mrs. Fischer, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Flake, Mr. Hatch, and 
        Mr.Tillis):
  S. 119. A bill to impose certain limitations on consent decrees and 
settlement agreements by agencies thatrequire the agencies to take 
regulatory action in accordance with the terms thereof, and for other 
purposes; to the Committee onthe Judiciary.
  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr.President, for too long, American families, farmers, 
and job creators have suffered under President Obama's 
regulatoryonslaught. His administration threw caution to wind, pumping 
out regulation after regulation and further entangling thegovernment 
into Americans' daily lives.
  In November, the American people issued a strong rebuke to President 
Obama'soverreach and his administration's way of doing business.
  They want a new direction. They want more accountability. They 
wantmore transparency. They want the government off their backs so that 
they can get back to making this country greatagain.
  President-elect Trump has committed to working with Congress to roll 
back the regulatory overreach of the Obamaadministration, and to making 
the government more answerable to the people.
  So, I rise today to introduce an important pieceof legislation that 
will help achieve these goals and ensure a more accountable and 
transparent government going forward.
  Bysome estimates, Federal Government regulations impose over $2 
trillion in compliance costs--on the American economy. The cost 
ofcomplying with all these regulations falls particularly heavy on 
small businesses.
  It is no wonder why many Americanbusinesses have shut down or moved 
overseas. How many innovators dreamed of starting a small business but 
decided against itwhen faced with the burden and uncertainty of our 
regulatory state?
  We have to do better.
  The Federal Government should doeverything possible to promote job 
creation. To accomplish that, common sense would tell us that the 
government needs to removebureaucratic barriers rather than put up new 
ones.
  But as we all know, the Obama administration showed time and again 
that itwould rather push forward with its regulatory agenda than ease 
the burden on our economy and job creators.
  Adding insult toinjury, the Obama administration often kept folks in 
the dark about new regulatory initiatives.
  Through secretive litigationtactics, the administration took end-runs 
around our nation's transparency and accountability laws. It is a 
strategy known assue-and-settle, and regulators have been using it to 
speed up rulemaking and keep the public away from the table when key 
policydecisions are made.
  Sue-and-settle typically follows a similar pattern.
  First, an interest group files a lawsuit against afederal agency, 
claiming that the agency has failed to take a certain regulatory action 
by a statutory deadline. The interestgroup seeks to compel the agency 
to take action by a new, often-rushed deadline. All too often, the 
plaintiff-interest groupwill be one that shares a common regulatory 
agenda with the agency that it sues, such as when an environmental 
group sues theEnvironmental Protection Agency, EPA.
  Next, the agency and interest group enter into negotiations behind 
closed doors toproduce either a settlement agreement or consent decree 
that commits the agency to satisfy the interest group's demands. 
Theagreement is then approved by a court, binding executive discretion.
  Noticeably absent from these negotiations, however, arethe very 
parties who will be most impacted by the resulting regulations.
  Sue-and-settle tactics undermine transparency,public accountability, 
and the quality of public policy. They can have sweeping consequences. 
For example, the Obamaadministration's so-called Clean Power Plan, 
which is the most expensive regulation ever to be imposed on the energy 
industry,arose out of a sue-and-settle arrangement.
  These tactics alsoundermine congressional intent.
  The Administrative Procedure Act, APA, which has been called the 
citizens' ``regulatory billof rights,'' was

[[Page S316]]

enacted to ensure transparency and accountability in the regulatory 
process. A key protection is thenotice-and-comment process, which 
requires agencies to provide notice of proposed regulations and to 
respond to commentssubmitted by the public.
  Rulemaking through sue-and-settle, however, frequently results in re-
aligned agency agendas andshort deadlines for regulatory action. This 
makes the notice-and-comment process a mere formality. It deprives 
regulatedentities, the States and the general public of sufficient time 
to have any meaningful input.
  The resulting regulatory actionis driven not by the public interest, 
but by special interest priorities, and can come as a complete surprise 
to those mostaffected by it.
  Sue-and-settle litigation also helps agencies avoid accountability. 
Instead of having to answer to the publicfor controversial regulations 
and policy decisions, agency officials can just point to a court order 
entering the agreement andsay that they were required to take action 
under its terms.
  We should also keep in mind that these agreements can havelasting 
impacts on the ability of future administrations to take a different 
policy approach--such as to remove regulatoryburdens on farmers. Not 
only does this raise serious concerns about bad public policy, it also 
puts into question theconstitutional impact of one administration's 
actions binding the hands of its successors.
  Sue-and-settle, and theconsequences that come from such tactics, is 
not a new phenomenon. Evidence of sue-and-settle tactics and closed-
door rulemakingcan be found in nearly every administration over the 
previous few decades.
  But without a doubt, there was an alarmingincrease under the Obama 
administration. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce found that just during 
President Obama's first term, 60Clean Air Act lawsuits against the EPA 
were resolved through consent decrees or settlement agreements.
  And since 2009, sue-and-settle cases against the EPA have imposed at 
least $13 billion in annual regulatory costs.
  But we now have an opportunityto curb these abuses, and an incoming 
administration that has committed to reining in the regulators.
  That is why today I amintroducing the Sunshine for Regulatory Decrees 
and Settlements Act. Senators Blunt, Inhofe, Cornyn, Cruz,Fischer, 
Rubio, Flake, Hatch, and Tillis are cosponsors of this important bill. 
And I'm pleased thatRepresentative Doug Collins introduced a companion 
bill today in the House.
  The Sunshine bill increases transparency byshedding light on sue-and-
settle tactics. It requires agencies to publish sue-and-settle 
complaints in a readily accessiblemanner.
  It requires agencies to publish proposed consent decrees and 
settlement agreements at least 60 days before they canbe filed with a 
court. This provides a valuable opportunity for the public to weigh-in, 
which will increase accountability inthe rulemaking process.
  The bill makes it easier for affected parties, such as States and 
businesses, to intervene in theselawsuits and settlement negotiations 
to ensure that their interests are properly represented. It requires 
the Attorney Generalto certify to a court that he or she has personally 
approved of the terms of certain proposed consent decrees or 
settlementagreements. And it requires courts to consider whether the 
terms of a proposed agreement are contrary to the publicinterest.
  The bill also makes it easier for succeeding administrations to 
modify a prior administration's consent decrees.That way, one 
administration won't be forced to continue the regulatory excesses of 
another.
  The Sunshine for RegulatoryDecrees and Settlements Act will shine 
light on the problem of sue-and-settle. It will help rein in backroom 
rulemaking,encourage the appropriate use of consent decrees and 
settlements, and reinforce the procedures that Congress laid out 
decadesago to ensure a transparent and accountable regulatory process.
  I thank my colleagues for their support of this bill.
                                 ______
                                 
      By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr. Paul, and Mr. Tester):
  S. 126. A bill to amend the Real ID Act of 2005 to repeal provisions 
requiring uniform State driver's licenses and Stateidentification 
cards, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
and Governmental Affairs.
  Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, in 2005, theFederal Government enacted the 
REAL ID Act, imposing Federal standards established by the Department 
of Homeland Security to theprocess and production of the issuance of 
States' driver's licenses and identification cards.
  This law was an underfunded,top down, Federal mandate, infringing on 
personal privacy, increasing the personal information susceptible to 
cyber-attacks, andundermining State sovereignty. Furthermore, a REAL ID 
compliant State ID will be required for all ``official federal 
purposes,''including boarding commercial aircraft, impeding the 
movement of American citizens.
  Montana led opposition to this Federalmandate. In 2007, Montana 
enacted a law, after both chambers of the State legislature unanimously 
passing legislation, refusingto comply.
  That is why I am reintroducing the Repeal ID Act--to allow Montana 
and other States to implement their laws,protecting their sovereignty 
and citizens' information. Consistent with the Montana State 
legislature, this legislation willrepeal the REAL ID Act of 2005.
  Montanans are fully aware of the power that big data holds and the 
consequences when thatdata is abused. Montana has shown how States are 
best equipped to make licenses secure, without sacrificing the privacy 
andrights of their citizens. The Repeal ID Act will allow us to strike 
a balance that protects our national security, while alsosafeguarding 
Montanans' civil liberties and personal privacy.
  I want to thank Senators Paul and Tester for beingoriginal cosponsors 
of this bill and I ask my other Senate colleagues to join us in support 
of this legislation.
  Mr.President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.
  There being no objection, thetext of the bill was ordered to be 
printed in the Record, as follows:

                                 S. 126

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States ofAmerica in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the``Repeal ID Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENTS FOR UNIFORM STATE 
                   DRIVER'SLICENSES AND STATE IDENTIFICATION 
                   CARDS.

       (a) Repeal.--Title II of the Real ID Act of 2005 (division 
     B of Public Law109-13) is amended by striking sections 201 
     through 205 (49 U.S.C. 30301 note).
       (b) Conforming Amendments.--
       (1)Criminal code.--Section 1028(a)(8) of title 18, United 
     States Code, is amended by striking ``false or actual 
     authenticationfeatures'' and inserting ``false identification 
     features''.
       (2) Intelligence reform and terrorism prevention act 
     of2004.--
       (A) In general.--Subtitle B of title VII of the 
     Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 
     2004(Public Law 108-458) is amended by inserting after 
     section 7211 the following:

     ``SEC.7212. DRIVER'S LICENSES AND PERSONAL IDENTIFICATION 
                   CARDS.

       ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1)Driver's license.--The term `driver's license' means a 
     motor vehicle operator's license (as defined in 
     section30301(5) of title 49, United States Code).
       ``(2) Personal identification card.--The term `personal 
     identification card'means an identification document (as 
     defined in section 1028(d)(3) of title 18, United States 
     Code) that has been issued by aState.
       ``(b) Standards for Acceptance by Federal Agencies.--
       ``(1) In general.--
       ``(A) Limitation onacceptance.--No Federal agency may 
     accept, for any official purpose, a driver's license or 
     personal identification card newlyissued by a State more than 
     2 years after the promulgation of the minimum standards under 
     paragraph (2) unless the driver'slicense or personal 
     identification card conforms to such minimum standards.
       ``(B) Date for conformance.--The Secretaryof 
     Transportation, in consultation with the Secretary of 
     Homeland Security, shall establish a date after which no 
     driver'slicense or personal identification card shall be 
     accepted by a Federal agency for any official purpose unless 
     such driver'slicense or personal identification card conforms 
     to the minimum standards established under paragraph (2). The 
     date shall be asearly as the Secretary determines it is 
     practicable for the States to comply with such date with 
     reasonable efforts.

[[Page S317]]

       ``(C) State certification.--
       ``(i) In general.--Each State shall certify to the 
     Secretary ofTransportation that the State is in compliance 
     with the requirements of this section.
       ``(ii) Frequency.--Certificationsunder clause (i) shall be 
     made at such intervals and in such a manner as the Secretary 
     of Transportation, with the concurrenceof the Secretary of 
     Homeland Security, may prescribe by regulation.
       ``(iii) Audits.--The Secretary of Transportationmay conduct 
     periodic audits of each State's compliance with the 
     requirements of this section.
       ``(2) Minimumstandards.--Not later than 18 months after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     Transportation, inconsultation with the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security, shall establish, by regulation, minimum standards 
     for driver's licenses orpersonal identification cards issued 
     by a State for use by Federal agencies for identification 
     purposes that shall include--
       ``(A) standards for documentation required as proof of 
     identity of an applicant for a driver's license or 
     personalidentification card;
       ``(B) standards for the verifiability of documents used to 
     obtain a driver's license or personalidentification card;
       ``(C) standards for the processing of applications for 
     driver's licenses and personal identificationcards to prevent 
     fraud;
       ``(D) standards for information to be included on each 
     driver's license or personal identificationcard, including--
       ``(i) the person's full legal name;
       ``(ii) the person's date of birth;
       ``(iii) the person'sgender;
       ``(iv) the person's driver's license or personal 
     identification card number;
       ``(v) a digital photograph of theperson;
       ``(vi) the person's address of principal residence; and
       ``(vii) the person's signature;
       ``(E) standardsfor common machine-readable identity 
     information to be included on each driver's license or 
     personal identification card,including defined minimum data 
     elements;
       ``(F) security standards to ensure that driver's licenses 
     and personalidentification cards are--
       ``(i) resistant to tampering, alteration, or 
     counterfeiting; and
       ``(ii) capable ofaccommodating and ensuring the security of 
     a digital photograph or other unique identifier; and
       ``(G) a requirement that aState confiscate a driver's 
     license or personal identification card if any component or 
     security feature of the license oridentification card is 
     compromised.
       ``(3) Content of regulations.--The regulations required 
     under paragraph (2)--
       ``(A) shall facilitate communication between the chief 
     driver licensing official of a State, an appropriate official 
     of aFederal agency and other relevant officials, to verify 
     the authenticity of documents, as appropriate, issued by such 
     Federalagency or entity and presented to prove the identity 
     of an individual;
       ``(B) may not infringe on a State's power to setcriteria 
     concerning what categories of individuals are eligible to 
     obtain a driver's license or personal identification cardfrom 
     that State;
       ``(C) may not require a State to comply with any such 
     regulation that conflicts with or otherwiseinterferes with 
     the full enforcement of State criteria concerning the 
     categories of individuals that are eligible to obtain 
     adriver's license or personal identification card from that 
     State;
       ``(D) may not require a single design to which 
     driver'slicenses or personal identification cards issued by 
     all States must conform; and
       ``(E) shall include procedures andrequirements to protect 
     the privacy rights of individuals who apply for and hold 
     driver's licenses and personal identificationcards.
       ``(4) Negotiated rulemaking.--
       ``(A) In general.--Before publishing the proposed 
     regulations requiredby paragraph (2) to carry out this title, 
     the Secretary of Transportation shall establish a negotiated 
     rulemaking processpursuant to subchapter IV of chapter 5 of 
     title 5, United States Code (5 U.S.C. 561 et seq.).
       ``(B) Representation onnegotiated rulemaking committee.--
     Any negotiated rulemaking committee established by the 
     Secretary of Transportation pursuantto subparagraph (A) shall 
     include representatives from--
       ``(i) among State offices that issue driver's licenses or 
     personalidentification cards;
       ``(ii) among State elected officials;
       ``(iii) the Department of Homeland Security; and
       ``(iv) among interested parties.
       ``(C) Time requirement.--The process described in 
     subparagraph (A) shall beconducted in a timely manner to 
     ensure that--
       ``(i) any recommendation for a proposed rule or report is 
     provided to theSecretary of Transportation not later than 9 
     months after the date of enactment of this Act and shall 
     include an assessment ofthe benefits and costs of the 
     recommendation; and
       ``(ii) a final rule is promulgated not later than 18 months 
     after thedate of enactment of this Act.
       ``(c) Grants to States.--
       ``(1) Assistance in meeting federalstandards.--Beginning on 
     the date a final regulation is promulgated under subsection 
     (b)(2), the Secretary of Transportationshall award grants to 
     States to assist them in conforming to the minimum standards 
     for driver's licenses and personalidentification cards set 
     forth in the regulation.
       ``(2) Allocation of grants.--The Secretary of 
     Transportation shallaward grants to States under this 
     subsection based on the proportion that the estimated average 
     annual number of driver'slicenses and personal identification 
     cards issued by a State applying for a grant bears to the 
     average annual number of suchdocuments issued by all States.
       ``(3) Minimum allocation.--Notwithstanding paragraph (2), 
     each State shall receive notless than 0.5 percent of the 
     grant funds made available under this subsection.
       ``(d) Extension of Effective Date.--TheSecretary of 
     Transportation may extend the date specified under subsection 
     (b)(1)(A) for up to 2 years for driver's licensesissued by a 
     State if the Secretary determines that the State made 
     reasonable efforts to comply with the date under 
     suchsubsection but was unable to do so.
       ``(e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are 
     authorized to be appropriated tothe Secretary of 
     Transportation for each of the fiscal years 2005 through 
     2009, such sums as may be necessary to carry out 
     thissection.''.
       (B) Effective date.--Section 7212 of the Intelligence 
     Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004, as addedby 
     subparagraph (A), shall take effect as if included in the 
     original enactment of such Act on December 17, 2004.
                                 ______
                                 
      By Mr. NELSON (for himself, Mrs. Fischer, Ms. Klobuchar, andMr. 
        Blunt):
  S. 134. A bill to expand the prohibition on misleading or inaccurate 
caller identification information,and for other purposes; to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
  Mr. NELSON. Mr. President, fraudulent and abusive phone scams plague 
thousands of Americans eachyear. These deceitful practices cause 
serious financial harm to victims, and have even led to tragedy in a 
few cases. Both theCommittee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, 
where I serve as Ranking Member, and the Special Committee on Aging, 
where Ipreviously served as Chairman, have explored the continuing 
severe impact of these scams. Consumers continue to lose millions 
ofdollars each year to fraudulent phone scams, many of which originate 
from other countries. And the impacts of these scams arevery real to 
the consumers who suffer. According to an October 2015 press report 
from CNN, one poor soul took his life earlierthat year after being 
tricked into spending thousands of dollars in a vain attempt to collect 
on his winnings in the Jamaicanlottery--winnings that were non-existent 
because it was all a scam perpetrated by phone-based fraudsters.
  Nearly all of ushave trained ourselves to ignore phone calls and text 
messages from numbers that are not familiar to us. But these 
sophisticatedscammers know that--and have changed their tactics. 
Scammers today impersonate government institutions, promote 
fraudulentlottery schemes, and tailor their calls to individuals in 
order to coerce victims into paying large sums of money. Many 
scammersuse spoofing technology to manipulate caller ID information and 
trick consumers into believing that these calls are local orcome from 
trusted institutions.
  In 2009, I introduced the Truth in Caller ID Act to prohibit caller 
ID spoofing when it isused to defraud or harm consumers. That law 
provided important tools for law enforcement and the Federal 
CommunicationsCommission, FCC, to go after fraudsters and crack down on 
these phone scams. I was pleased when my Congressional colleaguesjoined 
with me to pass that legislation and the President signed it into law. 
This was a huge win for consumers and the firststep toward ending these 
abusive practices.
  Recognizing the pace at which phone scam technologies evolve, the law 
directedthe FCC to prepare a report to Congress outlining what 
additional tools were needed to curb other forms of spoofing. In 
2011,the agency provided its recommendations to Congress on how to 
update the law to keep pace with new spoofing practices, such astext 
messaging scams.
  The bill Senators Fischer, Klobuchar, Blunt and I have introduced 
today responds to theFCC's recommendations and builds on the 2010 Act 
to ensure the law keeps up with these spoofing scams. As these scams 
becomeincreasingly sophisticated, we need to make sure that consumer 
protections and tools for law enforcement

[[Page S318]]

keep up. That iswhy this legislation is so important.
  The Spoofing Prevention Act of 2017 would extend the current 
prohibition on caller IDspoofing to text messages, calls coming from 
outside the United States, and calls from all forms of Voice over 
Internet Protocolservices.
  Additionally, for the first time, this bill would ensure consumers 
have access to information on a centralized FCCwebsite about current 
technologies and other tools available to protect themselves against 
spoofing scams.
  Finally, the Actdirects the Government Accountability Office, GAO, to 
conduct a study to assess government and private sector work being done 
tocurb spoofing scams, as well as what new measures, including 
technological solutions, could be taken to prevent spoofed callsfrom 
the start. I know industry, in cooperation with the FCC through its 
Robocall Strike Force, already is making great stridesin this area, and 
I would expect the GAO to review that work closely.
  I urge my colleagues to join Senators Fischer,Klobuchar, Blunt, and 
me in supporting the Spoofing Prevention Act of 2016 to ensure that law 
enforcement andconsumers have the updated tools they need to protect 
against this fraudulent activity. And make no mistake, I will press 
theFCC to continue to use its full authority under the Truth in Caller 
ID Act to stop these scams, including consideration oftechnical 
solutions--like call authentication--to protect consumers.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text ofthe bill be 
printed in the Record.
  There being no objection, the text of the bill was ordered to be 
printed in theRecord, as follows:

                                 S. 134

       Be it enacted by theSenate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Spoofing Prevention Act of 
     2017''.

     SEC. 2. DEFINITION.

       In this Act, the term ``Commission'' means the Federal 
     Communications Commission.

     SEC. 3. SPOOFING PREVENTION.

       (a) Expanding and Clarifying Prohibition on Misleadingor 
     Inaccurate Caller Identification Information.--
       (1) Communications from outside the united states.--Section 
     227(e)(1) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 
     227(e)(1)) is amended by striking ``in connection with any 
     telecommunicationsservice or IP-enabled voice service'' and 
     inserting ``or any person outside the United States if the 
     recipient of the call iswithin the United States, in 
     connection with any voice service or text messaging 
     service''.
       (2) Coverage of textmessages and voice services.--Section 
     227(e)(8) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 
     227(e)(8)) is amended--
       (A) insubparagraph (A), by striking ``telecommunications 
     service or IP-enabled voice service'' and inserting ``voice 
     service or a textmessage sent using a text messaging 
     service'';
       (B) in the first sentence of subparagraph (B), by 
     striking``telecommunications service or IP-enabled voice 
     service'' and inserting ``voice service or a text message 
     sent using a textmessaging service''; and
       (C) by striking subparagraph (C) and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(C) Text message.--Theterm `text message'--
       ``(i) means a message consisting of text, images, sounds, 
     or other information that is transmittedfrom or received by a 
     device that is identified as the transmitting or receiving 
     device by means of a 10-digit telephone number;
       ``(ii) includes a short message service (commonly referred 
     to as `SMS') message, an enhanced message service 
     (commonlyreferred to as `EMS') message, and a multimedia 
     message service (commonly referred to as `MMS') message; and
       ``(iii) doesnot include a real-time, 2-way voice or video 
     communication.
       ``(D) Text messaging service.--The term `text 
     messagingservice' means a service that permits the 
     transmission or receipt of a text message, including a 
     service provided as part of orin connection with a voice 
     service.
       ``(E) Voice service.--The term `voice service'--
       ``(i) means any service thatfurnishes voice communications 
     to an end user using resources from the North American 
     Numbering Plan or any successor to theNorth American 
     Numbering Plan adopted by the Commission under section 
     251(e)(1); and
       ``(ii) includes transmissions from atelephone facsimile 
     machine, computer, or other device to a telephone facsimile 
     machine.''.
       (3) Technicalamendment.--Section 227(e) of the 
     Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 227(e)) is amended in 
     the heading by inserting``Misleading or'' before 
     ``Inaccurate''.
       (4) Regulations.--
       (A) In general.--Section 227(e)(3)(A) ofthe Communications 
     Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 227(e)(3)(A)) is amended by striking 
     ``Not later than 6 months after the date ofenactment of the 
     Truth in Caller ID Act of 2009, the Commission'' and 
     inserting ``The Commission''.
       (B) Deadline.--TheCommission shall prescribe regulations to 
     implement the amendments made by this subsection not later 
     than 18 months after thedate of enactment of this Act.
       (5) Effective date.--The amendments made by this subsection 
     shall take effect on thedate that is 6 months after the date 
     on which the Commission prescribes regulations under 
     paragraph (4).
       (b) ConsumerEducation Materials on How to Avoid Scams That 
     Rely Upon Misleading or Inaccurate Caller Identification 
     Information.--
       (1)Development of materials.--Not later than 1 year after 
     the date of enactment of this Act, the Commission, in 
     collaborationwith the Federal Trade Commission, shall develop 
     consumer education materials that provide information about--
       (A) ways forconsumers to identify scams and other 
     fraudulent activity that rely upon the use of misleading or 
     inaccurate calleridentification information; and
       (B) existing technologies, if any, that a consumer can use 
     to protect against such scamsand other fraudulent activity.
       (2) Contents.--In developing the consumer education 
     materials under paragraph (1), theCommission shall--
       (A) identify existing technologies, if any, that can help 
     consumers guard themselves against scams andother fraudulent 
     activity that rely upon the use of misleading or inaccurate 
     caller identification information, including--
       (i) descriptions of how a consumer can use the technologies 
     to protect against such scams and other fraudulent 
     activity;and
       (ii) details on how consumers can access and use the 
     technologies; and
       (B) provide other information that may helpconsumers 
     identify and avoid scams and other fraudulent activity that 
     rely upon the use of misleading or inaccurate 
     calleridentification information.
       (3) Updates.--The Commission shall ensure that the consumer 
     education materials requiredunder paragraph (1) are updated 
     on a regular basis.
       (4) Website.--The Commission shall include the consumer 
     educationmaterials developed under paragraph (1) on its 
     website.
       (c) GAO Report on Combating the Fraudulent Provision 
     ofMisleading or Inaccurate Caller Identification 
     Information.--
       (1) In general.--The Comptroller General of the 
     UnitedStates shall conduct a study of the actions the 
     Commission and the Federal Trade Commission have taken to 
     combat the fraudulentprovision of misleading or inaccurate 
     caller identification information, and the additional 
     measures that could be taken tocombat such activity.
       (2) Required considerations.--In conducting the study under 
     paragraph (1), the ComptrollerGeneral shall examine--
       (A) trends in the types of scams that rely on misleading or 
     inaccurate caller identificationinformation;
       (B) previous and current enforcement actions by the 
     Commission and the Federal Trade Commission to combat 
     thepractices prohibited by section 227(e)(1) of the 
     Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 227(e)(1));
       (C) current efforts byindustry groups and other entities to 
     develop technical standards to deter or prevent the 
     fraudulent provision of misleading orinaccurate caller 
     identification information, and how such standards may help 
     combat the current and future provision ofmisleading or 
     inaccurate caller identification information; and
       (D) whether there are additional actions the Commission,the 
     Federal Trade Commission, and Congress should take to combat 
     the fraudulent provision of misleading or inaccurate 
     calleridentification information.
       (3) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, theComptroller General shall submit to 
     the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
     Senate and the Committee onEnergy and Commerce of the House 
     of Representatives a report on the findings of the study 
     conducted under paragraph (1),including any recommendations 
     regarding combating the fraudulent provision of misleading or 
     inaccurate caller identificationinformation.
       (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section, or the 
     amendments made by this section, shall beconstrued to modify, 
     limit, or otherwise affect any rule or order adopted by the 
     Commission in connection with--
       (1) theTelephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 (Public 
     Law 102-243; 105 Stat. 2394) or the amendments made by that 
     Act; or
       (2)the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003 (15 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.).

[[Page S319]]

  

                          ____________________



