

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S280-S281]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS ANDJOINT RESOLUTIONS

      By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr. Perdue):
  S. 98. A bill to reduce a portion of the annualpay of Members of 
Congress for the failure to adopt a concurrent resolution on the budget 
which does not provide for a balancedbudget, and for other purposes; to 
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
  Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of 
the bill be printed in theRecord.
  There being no objection, the text of the bill was ordered to be 
printed in the Record, asfollows:

                                 S. 98

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the UnitedStates of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; FINDINGS.

       (a) ShortTitle.--This Act may be cited as the ``Balanced 
     Budget Accountability Act''.
       (b) Findings.--Congress finds thefollowing:
       (1) The Federal debt exceeds $19,000,000,000,000, continues 
     to grow rapidly, and is larger than the size of theUnited 
     States economy.
       (2) The Federal budget has shown an annual deficit in 47 of 
     the last 52 years.
       (3) Deficits andthe Federal debt threaten to shatter 
     confidence in the Nation's economy, suppress job creation and 
     economic growth, and leavefuture generations of Americans 
     with a lower standard of living and fewer opportunities.
       (4) It is the duty of Members ofCongress to develop and 
     implement policies, including balancing the Federal budget, 
     that encourage robust job creation andeconomic growth in the 
     United States.
       (5) Members of Congress should be held accountable for 
     failing to pass annual budgetsthat result in a balanced 
     budget.

     SEC. 2. EFFECT OF FAILURE TO ADOPT RESOLUTION PROVIDING 
                   FORBALANCED BUDGETS.

       (a) Definitions.--In this section--
       (1) the term ``balanced budget'' means a concurrent 
     resolutionon the budget which provides that for fiscal year 
     2027, and each fiscal year thereafter to which the concurrent 
     resolution onthe budget applies--
       (A) total outlays do not exceed total receipts; and
       (B) total outlays are not more than 18 percentof the gross 
     domestic product of the United States (as determined by the 
     Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Department ofCommerce) for 
     such fiscal year;
       (2) the term ``Director'' means the Director of the Office 
     of Management and Budget;and
       (3) the term ``Member'' includes a Delegate or Resident 
     Commissioner to Congress.
       (b) Determination by the Officeof Management and Budget.--
     Upon adoption by a House of Congress of a concurrent 
     resolution on the budget for a fiscal year, theDirector 
     shall--
       (1) determine whether the concurrent resolution on the 
     budget is a balanced budget; and
       (2) submit tothe Speaker of the House of Representatives or 
     the President pro tempore of the Senate (as the case may be) 
     a certification asto whether or not that House of Congress 
     has adopted a balanced budget.
       (c) Rule for Fiscal Years 2018 and2019.--
       (1) Fiscal year 2018.--
       (A)  Holding salaries in escrow.--If the Director does not 
     certify that a Houseof Congress has adopted a balanced budget 
     with respect to fiscal year 2018 before April 16, 2017, 
     during the period described insubparagraph (B) the payroll 
     administrator of that House of Congress shall deposit in an 
     escrow account all payments otherwiserequired to be made 
     during such period for the compensation of Members of 
     Congress who serve in that House of Congress, andshall 
     release such payments to such Members only upon the 
     expiration of such period.
       (B) Period described.--With respectto a House of Congress, 
     the period described in this subparagraph is the period that 
     begins on April 16, 2017, and ends on theearlier of--
       (i) the date on which the Director certifies that the House 
     of Congress has adopted a balanced budget withrespect to 
     fiscal year 2018; or
       (ii) the last day of the One Hundred Fifteenth Congress.
       (2) Fiscal year2019.--
       (A)  Holding salaries in escrow.--If the Director does not 
     certify that a House of Congress has adopted abalanced budget 
     with respect to fiscal year 2019 before April 16, 2018, 
     during the period described in subparagraph (B) thepayroll 
     administrator of that House of Congress shall deposit in an 
     escrow account all payments otherwise required to be 
     madeduring such period for the compensation of Members of 
     Congress who serve in that House of Congress, and shall 
     release suchpayments to such Members only upon the expiration 
     of such period.
       (B) Period described.--With respect to a House ofCongress, 
     the period described in this subparagraph is the period that 
     begins on April 16, 2018, and ends on the earlierof--
       (i) the date on which the Director certifies that the House 
     of Congress has adopted a balanced budget with respect 
     tofiscal year 2019; or
       (ii) the last day of the One Hundred Fifteenth Congress.
       (3) Withholding and remittance ofamounts from payments held 
     in escrow.--The payroll administrator shall provide for the 
     same withholding and remittance withrespect to a payment 
     deposited in an escrow account under paragraph (1) or (2) 
     that would

[[Page S281]]

     apply to the payment if thepayment were not subject to 
     paragraph (1) or (2).
       (4) Release of amounts at end of the congress.--In order to 
     ensurethat this subsection is carried out in a manner that 
     shall not vary the compensation of Senators or 
     Representatives in violationof the twenty-seventh amendment 
     to the Constitution of the United States, the payroll 
     administrator of a House of Congress shallrelease for 
     payments to Members of that House of Congress any amounts 
     remaining in any escrow account under this section on thelast 
     day of the One Hundred Fifteenth Congress.
       (5) Role of secretary of the treasury.--The Secretary of 
     the Treasuryshall provide the payroll administrators of the 
     Houses of Congress with such assistance as may be necessary 
     to enable thepayroll administrators to carry out this 
     subsection.
       (6) Payroll administrator defined.--In this subsection, 
     the``payroll administrator'' of a House of Congress means--
       (A) in the case of the House of Representatives, the 
     ChiefAdministrative Officer of the House of Representatives, 
     or an employee of the Office of the Chief Administrative 
     Officer who isdesignated by the Chief Administrative Officer 
     to carry out this section; and
       (B) in the case of the Senate, the Secretaryof the Senate, 
     or an employee of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate 
     who is designated by the Secretary to carry out thissection.
       (d) Rule for Fiscal Year 2020 and Subsequent Fiscal 
     Years.--If the Director does not certify that a House 
     ofCongress has adopted a balanced budget with respect to 
     fiscal year 2020, or any fiscal year thereafter, before April 
     16 of thefiscal year before such fiscal year, during pay 
     periods which occur in the same calendar year after that date 
     each Member ofthat House shall be paid at an annual rate of 
     pay equal to $1.

     SEC. 3. SUPERMAJORITYREQUIREMENT FOR INCREASING REVENUE.

       (a) In General.--In the Senate and the House of 
     Representatives, a bill, jointresolution, amendment, 
     conference report, or amendment between the Houses that 
     increases revenue shall only be agreed to upon anaffirmative 
     vote of three-fifths of the Members of that House of Congress 
     duly chosen and sworn.
       (b) Rules of Senate andthe House of Representatives.--
     Subsection (a) is enacted by Congress--
       (1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of theSenate and 
     House of Representatives, respectively, and as such it is 
     deemed a part of the rules of each House, respectively, 
     butapplicable only with respect to the procedure to be 
     followed in that House in the case of a bill, joint 
     resolution, amendment,conference report, or amendment between 
     the Houses that increases revenue, and it supersedes other 
     rules only to the extent thatit is inconsistent with such 
     rules; and
       (2) with full recognition of the constitutional right of 
     either House to change therules (so far as relating to the 
     procedure of that House) at any time, in the same manner, and 
     to the same extent as in the caseof any other rule of that 
     House.

                          ____________________



