

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 49 (Tuesday, March 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 49 (Tuesday, March 21, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2286-H2287]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself, Mr. Engel, Mr. 
             Yoho, and Mr. Sherman):
       H.R. 1644. A bill to enhance sanctions with respect to 
     transactions relating to North Korea, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Ways and Means, Financial Services, 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. SINEMA (for herself and Mr. Hollingsworth):
       H.R. 1645. A bill to amend the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
     to provide a temporary exemption for low-revenue issuers from 
     certain auditor attestation requirements; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Hudson, and 
             Mr. Rokita):
       H.R. 1646. A bill to amend title VII of the Civil Rights 
     Act of 1964 to exclude the application of such title to 
     employment practices that are in compliance with Federal 
     regulations, and State laws, in certain areas; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself and Mr. Duncan of 
             Tennessee):
       H.R. 1647. A bill to establish a Water Infrastructure Trust 
     Fund, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on Ways and 
     Means, and Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. CLARKE of New York (for herself and Mr. Meehan):
       H.R. 1648. A bill to provide for further comprehensive 
     research at the National Institute of Neurological Disorders 
     and Stroke on unruptured intracranial aneurysms; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. DINGELL:
       H.R. 1649. A bill to assist entrepreneurs, support 
     development of the creative economy, and encourage 
     international cultural exchange, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Small Business, Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, the Judiciary, Education and the Workforce, 
     Financial Services, and Agriculture, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself, Mr. Russell, and Ms. 
             Bass):

[[Page H2287]]

  

       H.R. 1650. A bill to establish a national, research-based, 
     and comprehensive home study assessment process for the 
     evaluation of prospective foster parents and adoptive parents 
     and provide funding to States and Indian tribes to adopt such 
     process; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas (for herself, Mr. 
             King of New York, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Engel, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Young of Alaska, Mr. Lance, Mr. 
             Schrader, Ms. Herrera Beutler, Mr. Harper, Mr. 
             McKinley, and Mr. Cramer):
       H.R. 1651. A bill to designate the same individual serving 
     as the Chief Nurse Officer of the Public Health Service as 
     the National Nurse for Public Health; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself, Mr. Carter of Georgia, and 
             Mrs. Blackburn):
       H.R. 1652. A bill to provide for the regulation of over-
     the-counter hearing aids; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. LATTA (for himself and Mr. McKinley):
       H.R. 1653. A bill to amend certain provisions of the Safe 
     Drinking Water Act, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. McCLINTOCK (for himself, Ms. Cheney, Mr. Cook, 
             Mr. Cramer, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Issa, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. 
             Rohrabacher, and Mr. Tipton):
       H.R. 1654. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the 
     Interior to coordinate Federal and State permitting processes 
     related to the construction of new surface water storage 
     projects on lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of 
     the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture and to 
     designate the Bureau of Reclamation as the lead agency for 
     permit processing, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. MEEHAN (for himself, Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Babin, and Mr. Larson of 
             Connecticut):
       H.R. 1655. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow a credit against income tax for facilities 
     using a qualified methane conversion technology to provide 
     transportation fuels and chemicals; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. MEEHAN (for himself, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, Mr. Hurd, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, and Mr. 
             Reichert):
       H.R. 1656. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide incentives for employers to establish student 
     loan repayment programs and to make contributions to 
     qualified tuition programs on behalf of children of 
     employees; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. NOLAN:
       H.R. 1657. A bill to amend the Trade Act of 1974 to 
     authorize a State to reimburse certain costs incurred by the 
     State in providing training to workers after a petition for 
     certification of eligibility for trade adjustment assistance 
     has been filed, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 1658. A bill to extend to the Mayor of the District of 
     Columbia the same authority over the National Guard of the 
     District of Columbia as the Governors of the several States 
     exercise over the National Guard of those States with respect 
     to administration of the National Guard and its use to 
     respond to natural disasters and other civil disturbances, 
     while ensuring that the President retains control of the 
     National Guard of the District of Columbia to respond to 
     homeland defense emergencies; to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. ROSKAM (for himself, Mr. Kind, Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Reichert, Mr. 
             Pascrell, Mr. Renacci, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, and Ms. Bonamici):
       H.R. 1659. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 and the Higher Education Act of 1965 to provide an 
     exclusion from income for student loan forgiveness for 
     students who have died or become disabled; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. SIRES (for himself, Mr. Diaz-Balart, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mr. Engel, Mr. Sherman, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. 
             Keating, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Donovan, and Mr. Smith 
             of New Jersey):
       H.R. 1660. A bill to direct the Administrator of the United 
     States Agency for International Development to submit to 
     Congress a report on the development and use of global health 
     innovations in the programs, projects, and activities of the 
     Agency; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. TIBERI (for himself, Mr. Neal, Mr. Meehan, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Ms. Sanchez, 
             Mr. Paulsen, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Reichert, Mr. Thompson 
             of California, Mr. Smith of Missouri, Mr. Danny K. 
             Davis of Illinois, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. Meeks, 
             Mr. Faso, Mr. Katko, Mr. Pascrell, and Mr. Renacci):
       H.R. 1661. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to reform the low-income housing credit, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. WENSTRUP:
       H.R. 1662. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     prohibit smoking in any facility of the Veterans Health 
     Administration, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. WITTMAN (for himself, Mrs. Napolitano, and Mr. 
             Griffith):
       H.R. 1663. A bill to amend the Water Resources Research Act 
     of 1984 to reauthorize grants for and require applied water 
     supply research regarding the water resources research and 
     technology institutes established under that Act; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Meeks, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Bilirakis, Ms. Norton, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, and Mr. David Scott of Georgia):
       H. Res. 213. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of October 17, 2017, as the ``National Vitiligo 
     Awareness Day''; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. SANCHEZ (for herself, Mr. Cook, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. 
             Clarke of New York, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Rush, and Mr. 
             Gallagher):
       H. Res. 214. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of a Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself and Mr. Mast):
       H. Res. 215. A resolution expressing the fact that the 
     House of Representatives supports the system for prescription 
     drug coverage provided under part D of the Medicare program 
     and believes that changes to such system should not be part 
     of the American Health Care Act of 2017; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BUCSHON:
       H. Res. 216. A resolution congratulating the Plastics 
     Industry Association on its 80th anniversary; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Science, Space, and Technology, and Education 
     and the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Nadler, Mr. 
             Lewis of Georgia, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Meeks, and Ms. 
             Shea-Porter):
       H. Res. 217. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of Social Work Month and World Social Work Day; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for himself, Mr. Allen, 
             Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Connolly, Mr. 
             Delaney, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Donovan, Mr. 
             Foster, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mr. Gene Green of 
             Texas, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, Ms. Kelly 
             of Illinois, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. 
             Langevin, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Marino, 
             Ms. Moore, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Quigley, 
             Miss Rice of New York, Ms. Rosen, Mr. Roskam, Ms. 
             Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. 
             Yoho, Mr. Rokita, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, and Ms. 
             Meng):
       H. Res. 218. A resolution recognizing the importance of the 
     United States-Israel economic relationship and encouraging 
     new areas of cooperation; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. WALKER:
       H. Res. 219. A resolution establishing a Select Committee 
     on POW and MIA Affairs; to the Committee on Rules.

                          ____________________



