

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 37 (Thursday, March 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 37 (Thursday, March 2, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1526-H1530]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Conyers, 
             Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Ellison, 
             Ms. Lee, Mrs. Davis of California, Ms. Speier, Ms. 
             Moore, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Lipinski, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. 
             Pocan, Ms. Norton, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. 
             DeLauro, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Pingree, 
             Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Rush, Mr. Tonko, and Mr. 
             Grijalva):
       H.R. 1299. A bill to suspend United States security 
     assistance with Honduras until such time as human rights 
     violations by Honduran security forces cease and their 
     perpetrators are brought to justice; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Financial Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself and Mr. Gene Green of 
             Texas):
       H.R. 1300. A bill to require the Secretary of Labor to 
     maintain a publicly available list of all employers that 
     relocate a call center overseas, to make such companies 
     ineligible for Federal grants or guaranteed loans, and to 
     require disclosure of the physical location of business 
     agents engaging in customer service communications, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in addition to the Committees on Armed Services, Oversight 
     and Government Reform, and Education and the Workforce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN:
       H.R. 1301. A bill making appropriations for the Department 
     of Defense for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2017, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Appropriations,

[[Page H1527]]

     and in addition to the Committee on the Budget, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. McSALLY (for herself, Mr. Lance, Mr. McCaul, Mr. 
             Katko, Mr. Vela, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, Mr. 
             Ratcliffe, Mr. Rutherford, Mr. Hurd, and Mr. 
             Loudermilk):
       H.R. 1302. A bill to require an exercise related to 
     terrorist and foreign fighter travel, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. PASCRELL (for himself, Mr. Brat, Mr. Khanna, and 
             Mr. Gosar):
       H.R. 1303. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to reform and reduce fraud and abuse in certain visa 
     programs for aliens working temporarily in the United States, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee (for himself and Mr. Walberg):
       H.R. 1304. A bill to amend the Employee Retirement Income 
     Security Act of 1974, the Public Health Service Act, and the 
     Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to exclude from the definition 
     of health insurance coverage certain medical stop-loss 
     insurance obtained by certain plan sponsors of group health 
     plans; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Ways and Means, and Education 
     and the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself, Mr. Massie, Mr. 
             Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Luetkemeyer, Mr. 
             Marchant, Mr. Olson, Mr. Bishop of Michigan, and Ms. 
             Jenkins of Kansas):
       H.R. 1305. A bill to make participation in the American 
     Community Survey voluntary, except with respect to certain 
     basic questions, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO (for himself and Mr. Walden):
       H.R. 1306. A bill to provide for the conveyance of certain 
     Federal land in the State of Oregon, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO (for himself and Mr. Cohen):
       H.R. 1307. A bill to amend the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act to establish a public health insurance 
     option; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO:
       H.R. 1308. A bill to designate the Frank and Jeanne Moore 
     Wild Steelhead Special Management Area in the State of 
     Oregon; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KATKO (for himself, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Keating, and 
             Mr. King of New York):
       H.R. 1309. A bill to streamline the office and term of the 
     Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security.
           By Mr. SOTO (for himself, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Ms. 
             Castor of Florida, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Crist, Mrs. 
             Demings, Mr. Deutch, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mrs. Murphy of 
             Florida, Mr. Perlmutter, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, and 
             Ms. Wilson of Florida):
       H.R. 1310. A bill to support programs for mosquito-borne 
     and other vector-borne disease surveillance and control; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SMITH of Nebraska (for himself, Mr. Loebsack, 
             Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. 
             Kinzinger, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Peterson, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Cartwright, and Mr. Walz):
       H.R. 1311. A bill to amend the Clean Air Act with respect 
     to the ethanol waiver for Reid vapor pressure limitations 
     under such Act; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. POLIQUIN (for himself and Mr. Vargas):
       H.R. 1312. A bill to amend the Small Business Investment 
     Incentive Act of 1980 to require an annual review by the 
     Securities and Exchange Commission of the annual government-
     business forum on capital formation that is held pursuant to 
     such Act; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. FOXX (for herself and Mr. Walberg):
       H.R. 1313. A bill to clarify rules relating to 
     nondiscriminatory workplace wellness programs; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to 
     the Committees on Energy and Commerce, and Ways and Means, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GOODLATTE (for himself, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. Duncan 
             of South Carolina, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Weber 
             of Texas, Mrs. Black, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. 
             Pearce, Mr. Massie, Mr. Sensenbrenner, Mr. Gosar, Mr. 
             Smith of Texas, Mr. Brat, Mr. Culberson, Mr. Collins 
             of Georgia, Ms. Foxx, Mr. Rohrabacher, Mr. Rice of 
             South Carolina, Mr. Brady of Texas, Mr. Farenthold, 
             Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Labrador, Mr. McClintock, Mr. Olson, 
             Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Bridenstine, 
             Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. 
             Jordan, Mr. Posey, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Barton, Mr. Jody 
             B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Dent, Mr. Sam Johnson of 
             Texas, Mr. Babin, Mr. Westerman, Mr. Francis Rooney 
             of Florida, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Chaffetz, Mr. 
             Harris, Mr. Marchant, Mr. Valadao, Mr. Holding, Mr. 
             Zeldin, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. Murphy of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Hensarling, Mr. Carter of Texas, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. 
             Meadows, Mr. Cole, Mr. Stewart, Mr. Bishop of Utah, 
             Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Faso, Ms. Granger, and Mr. 
             Williams):
       H.R. 1314. A bill to repeal the renewable fuel program of 
     the Environmental Protection Agency; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. GOODLATTE (for himself, Mr. Welch, Mr. Womack, 
             Mr. Costa, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. 
             Bridenstine, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Posey, Mr. 
             Dent, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Meadows, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. 
             Rothfus, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Chaffetz, Mr. 
             Harris, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Sensenbrenner, Mr. 
             Cole, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. Zeldin, 
             Mr. Pearce, Mr. Westerman, Mr. Crawford, Mr. Cooper, 
             Mr. McCaul, Mr. Allen, Mr. Bishop of Utah, Mr. 
             Richmond, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Amodei, Mr. Farenthold, 
             Mr. Sessions, Mr. Fleischmann, Mr. Babin, Mr. Gaetz, 
             Mr. Jones, Mr. Williams, Mr. Bilirakis, and Mr. 
             Austin Scott of Georgia):
       H.R. 1315. A bill to amend the Clean Air Act to eliminate 
     certain requirements under the renewable fuel program, to 
     prohibit the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
     Agency from approving the introduction into commerce of 
     gasoline that contains greater than 10-volume-percent 
     ethanol, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Loebsack, 
             Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mrs. 
             McMorris Rodgers, Mr. Blum, Mr. Sarbanes, and Mr. 
             Babin):
       H.R. 1316. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for pharmacy benefits manager 
     standards under the Medicare prescription drug program and 
     Medicare Advantage program to further transparency of payment 
     methodologies to pharmacies, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Ways and Means, Armed Services, and Oversight 
     and Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas (for himself, Mr. Babin, 
             Mr. Walz, Mr. Hill, Ms. Granger, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. 
             Sessions, Mr. Rouzer, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Byrne, Mr. King 
             of New York, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, and Mr. Yoho):
       H.R. 1317. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow members of the Ready Reserve of a reserve 
     component of the Armed Forces to make elective deferrals on 
     the basis of their service to the Ready Reserve and on the 
     basis of their other employment; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER (for herself, Mr. Conyers, Mr. 
             Costello of Pennsylvania, and Ms. DeGette):
       H.R. 1318. A bill to support States in their work to save 
     and sustain the health of mothers during pregnancy, 
     childbirth, and in the postpartum period, to eliminate 
     disparities in maternal health outcomes for pregnancy-related 
     and pregnancy-associated deaths, to identify solutions to 
     improve health care quality and health outcomes for mothers, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. MARCHANT (for himself, Mr. Thornberry, and Mr. 
             Crawford):
       H.R. 1319. A bill to amend title XXVII of the Public Health 
     Service Act to permit cooperative governing of public entity 
     health benefits through local governments in secondary 
     States; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. KINZINGER (for himself and Mr. Michael F. Doyle 
             of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 1320. A bill to amend the Omnibus Budget 
     Reconciliation Act of 1990 related to Nuclear Regulatory 
     Commission user fees and annual charges, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. BROWN of Maryland:
       H.R. 1321. A bill to amend the National Housing Act to 
     require the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to 
     issue guidance to reduce up-front premiums for FHA-insured 
     mortgages if the capital ratio of the Mutual Mortgage 
     Insurance Fund exceeds the statutory limit, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for herself, Ms. Adams, 
             Mr. Aguilar, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Bera, Mr. Beyer, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Ms. Bonamici, Mr.

[[Page H1528]]

             Brady of Pennsylvania, Ms. Brownley of California, 
             Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Clarke of 
             New York, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, 
             Mr. DeFazio, Ms. DeGette, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Deutch, 
             Mr. Doggett, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Engel, Mr. Evans, Mr. 
             Foster, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Ms. Fudge, Mr. 
             Gallego, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Gutierrez, 
             Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Heck, Mr. Higgins of 
             New York, Mr. Himes, Ms. Norton, Mr. Huffman, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Keating, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Kihuen, Mr. Kildee, Mr. 
             Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Mrs. 
             Lawrence, Ms. Lee, Mr. Levin, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham 
             of New Mexico, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, 
             Ms. McCollum, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. 
             McNerney, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Nadler, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Norcross, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Payne, 
             Mr. Peters, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Price of 
             North Carolina, Mr. Quigley, Miss Rice of New York, 
             Mr. Richmond, Ms. Rosen, Mr. Rush, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, 
             Ms. Sanchez, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Schiff, Mr. David 
             Scott of Georgia, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Sinema, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Soto, Ms. 
             Speier, Mr. Takano, Ms. Titus, Mr. Tonko, Mrs. 
             Torres, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Veasey, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Walz, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Mr. Welch, Mr. Yarmuth, Ms. DelBene, 
             Mr. Connolly, and Mrs. Davis of California):
       H.R. 1322. A bill to protect a woman's right and ability to 
     determine whether and when to bear a child or end a pregnancy 
     by limiting restrictions on the provision of abortion 
     services; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. COLLINS of New York (for himself and Mr. 
             Flores):
       H.R. 1323. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to reduce unnecessary emergency room visits under the 
     Medicaid program; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. McNERNEY:
       H.R. 1324. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 
     to provide for the establishment of cybersecurity standards 
     for certain radio frequency equipment; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. BUCSHON:
       H.R. 1325. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide States with flexibility with respect to 
     providing premium assistance under the Medicaid program; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SCHRADER (for himself and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 1326. A bill to direct the Secretary of Defense to 
     submit to Congress a certain study by the Defense Business 
     Board regarding potential cost savings in the Department of 
     Defense and to provide for expedited consideration of 
     legislation to implement such cost savings; to the Committee 
     on Armed Services, and in addition to the Committee on Rules, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi:
       H.R. 1327. A bill to improve transparency regarding the 
     activities of the American Red Cross, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. BOST (for himself and Ms. Esty):
       H.R. 1328. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for annual cost-of-living adjustments to be made 
     automatically by law each year in the rates of disability 
     compensation for veterans with service-connected disabilities 
     and the rates of dependency and indemnity compensation for 
     survivors of certain service-connected disabled veterans, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BOST (for himself and Ms. Esty):
       H.R. 1329. A bill to increase, effective as of December 1, 
     2017, the rates of compensation for veterans with service-
     connected disabilities and the rates of dependency and 
     indemnity compensation for the survivors of certain disabled 
     veterans, to amend title 38, United States Code, to improve 
     the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims, to 
     improve the processing of claims by the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. AMODEI:
       H.R. 1330. A bill to improve the control and management of 
     invasive species that threaten and harm Federal land under 
     the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture and the 
     Secretary of the Interior, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. BANKS of Indiana:
       H.R. 1331. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide 
     educational and vocational counseling for veterans on 
     campuses of institutions of higher learning, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself and Ms. Stefanik):
       H.R. 1332. A bill to amend the Richard B. Russell National 
     School Lunch Act to improve the child and adult care food 
     program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. CARTER of Georgia:
       H.R. 1333. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to allow States more flexibility with respect to using 
     contractors to make eligibility determinations on behalf of 
     the State Medicaid plan; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. CARTER of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Weber of 
             Texas, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. McClintock, Mr. 
             Gosar, Mr. Harris, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Rohrabacher, Mr. 
             Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Bishop of Michigan, Mr. 
             Rouzer, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Burgess, Mr. Olson, Mr. 
             DesJarlais, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Babin, Mr. Austin 
             Scott of Georgia, Mr. Yoho, and Mr. Smith of Texas):
       H.R. 1334. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to require U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, upon 
     the request of a law enforcement official, to make a prompt 
     determination of whether to issue a detainer in the case of 
     an alien arrested for a violation of Federal, State, or local 
     law; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. CLARKE of New York:
       H.R. 1335. A bill to direct the Federal Communications 
     Commission to issue rules to secure communications networks 
     against cyber risks, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CRAMER (for himself and Mr. Mullin):
       H.R. 1336. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide States with flexibility in providing choice of 
     coverage through managed care under Medicaid; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CRAMER (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Tiberi, 
             Mr. Paulsen, and Mrs. Noem):
       H.R. 1337. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to expand tax-free distributions from individual 
     retirement accounts to include rollovers for charitable life-
     income plans for charitable purposes; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. DesJARLAIS (for himself, Mr. Barr, Mrs. Black, 
             Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Comer, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, 
             Mr. Fleischmann, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, 
             and Mr. Rogers of Kentucky):
       H.R. 1338. A bill to amend the Horse Protection Act to 
     provide increased protection for horses participating in 
     shows, exhibitions, or sales, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee (for himself, Mr. Duncan of 
             South Carolina, and Mr. Sessions):
       H.R. 1339. A bill to require that the Federal Government 
     procure from the private sector the goods and services 
     necessary for the operations and management of certain 
     Government agencies, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. ENGEL:
       H.R. 1340. A bill to require the Federal Communications 
     Commission to establish an Interagency Communications 
     Security Committee, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GOSAR (for himself, Mr. Amodei, Mr. Babin, Mr. 
             Barletta, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Mr. Capuano, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Cooper, 
             Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Duncan of 
             Tennessee, Miss Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto Rico, Mr. 
             Jones, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. 
             Pearce, Mr. Roskam, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Weber of Texas, 
             Mr. Yoho, and Mr. Gohmert):
       H.R. 1341. A bill to amend the Federal Election Campaign 
     Act of 1971 to prohibit the acceptance by political 
     committees of online contributions from certain unverified 
     sources, and for other purposes; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Mr. HARRIS (for himself, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Aderholt, 
             Mr. Babin, Mr. Bergman, Mr. Biggs, Mr. Conaway, Mr. 
             DesJarlais, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Franks 
             of Arizona, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Gosar, Mr. 
             Grothman, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
             Kelly of Mississippi, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. LaMalfa, 
             Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Rice of South Carolina, Mr. 
             Rokita, Mr. Sanford, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Wilson 
             of South Carolina, Mr. Yoho, and Mr. Lamborn):
       H.R. 1342. A bill to prohibit any institution of higher 
     education that receives a Federal research and development 
     grant and does not comply with a lawful request for 
     information

[[Page H1529]]

     or detainment of an alien made by any officer or employee of 
     the Federal government who is charged with enforcement of the 
     immigration laws from receiving indirect cost reimbursement 
     funding, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on Science, 
     Space, and Technology, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. HULTGREN (for himself, Mr. Delaney, Mr. Stivers, 
             Ms. Sinema, Mr. Higgins of New York, and Mr. 
             MacArthur):
       H.R. 1343. A bill to direct the Securities and Exchange 
     Commission to revise its rules so as to increase the 
     threshold amount for requiring issuers to provide certain 
     disclosures relating to compensatory benefit plans; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. KILMER (for himself and Mrs. Comstock):
       H.R. 1344. A bill to provide grants to assist States in 
     developing and implementing plans to address cybersecurity 
     threats or vulnerabilities, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself, Mr. Price of North 
             Carolina, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, and Ms. Bass):
       H.R. 1345. A bill to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to 
     create protected credit reports for minors and protect the 
     credit of minors, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. LIPINSKI (for himself, Mr. Lewis of Minnesota, 
             Ms. Esty, Mr. Hultgren, Ms. Norton, Mr. Rodney Davis 
             of Illinois, Mr. Webster of Florida, Mr. Nolan, Mrs. 
             Walorski, Mr. Costa, Mr. Chaffetz, Mr. Quigley, and 
             Mr. Denham):
       H.R. 1346. A bill to repeal the rule issued by the Federal 
     Highway Administration and the Federal Transit Administration 
     entitled ``Metropolitan Planning Organization Coordination 
     and Planning Area Reform''; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. LOUDERMILK (for himself, Mr. Katko, Mr. Keating, 
             Mr. Hurd, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Ratcliffe, and Ms. 
             McSally):
       H.R. 1347. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to provide counter-radicalization training to 
     Department of Homeland Security representatives at State and 
     local fusion centers, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York:
       H.R. 1348. A bill to require the Director of the Centers 
     for Disease Control and Prevention to complete a study on the 
     human health implications of per- and polyfluoroalkyl 
     substances (PFAS) contamination in drinking water; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. McCLINTOCK (for himself, Mr. Hunter, Mr. 
             Westerman, and Mr. Pearce):
       H.R. 1349. A bill to amend the Wilderness Act to ensure 
     that the use of bicycles, wheelchairs, strollers, and game 
     carts is not prohibited in Wilderness Areas, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. NOLAN:
       H.R. 1350. A bill to modify the boundary of Voyageurs 
     National Park in the State of Minnesota, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. PERRY (for himself and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 1351. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     direct the Administrator of the Transportation Security 
     Administration (TSA) to make certain improvements in managing 
     TSA's employee misconduct, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. RENACCI (for himself, Mr. Meehan, Mr. Bucshon, 
             Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Webster of Florida, and Mr. Tiberi):
       H.R. 1352. A bill to encourage States to engage more TANF 
     recipients in activities leading to employment and self-
     sufficiency, and to simplify State administration of TANF 
     work requirements; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Miss RICE of New York (for herself, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Mr. Keating, and Mr. Katko):
       H.R. 1353. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to require certain additional information to be 
     submitted to Congress regarding the strategic 5-year 
     technology investment plan of the Transportation Security 
     Administration; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. THOMAS J. ROONEY of Florida (for himself and Mr. 
             Ryan of Ohio):
       H.R. 1354. A bill to increase the penalties for fentanyl 
     trafficking; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SCHWEIKERT:
       H.R. 1355. A bill to amend the Clean Air Act to give States 
     the option of monitoring covered criteria air pollutants in 
     designated areas by greatly increasing the number of air 
     quality sensors in exchange for greater regulatory 
     flexibility in the methods of monitoring, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Welch, 
             Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Jeffries, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. 
             Nadler, Mr. Norcross, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Castro of Texas, Mr. 
             Himes, Ms. Maxine Waters of California, Mr. McNerney, 
             Mr. Jones, Mr. Quigley, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. 
             Nolan, Mr. Keating, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. 
             Evans, Ms. Lee, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Sires, Ms. Jackson 
             Lee, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. Pingree, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Blumenauer, and Mr. Larsen of 
             Washington):
       H.R. 1356. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to permit disclosure of tax return information to the 
     Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
     Representatives and to the Select Committee on Intelligence 
     of the Senate; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. STEFANIK (for herself and Mr. Thompson of 
             California):
       H.R. 1357. A bill to provide for the issuance of a 
     semipostal to benefit programs that combat invasive species; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Natural Resources, and 
     Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. TONKO (for himself, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Lowenthal, 
             Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Gallego, Mr. 
             Soto, Ms. Lee, Mr. Nadler, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Ryan 
             of Ohio, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Ms. Slaughter, 
             Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Lewis of 
             Georgia, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. Beyer, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Moore, Mr. Rush, Ms. 
             Meng, Ms. Rosen, Mr. Keating, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Ted 
             Lieu of California, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Raskin, Mr. 
             Takano, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Engel, Mr. 
             Neal, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, 
             Mr. Pocan, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Speier, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Mrs. Lawrence, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. 
             Butterfield, Ms. Matsui, Mr. McNerney, Mr. 
             Perlmutter, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Pallone, Ms. 
             McCollum, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Cleaver, 
             Mr. Polis, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Khanna, 
             Mr. Langevin, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Foster, 
             Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Crist, Mrs. 
             Dingell, Ms. Esty, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. 
             Huffman, Mr. Bera, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Mr. Meeks, and Ms. Wasserman Schultz):
       H.R. 1358. A bill to protect scientific integrity in 
     Federal research and policymaking, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mrs. WALORSKI (for herself and Miss Rice of New 
             York):
       H.R. 1359. A bill to provide for the reconsideration of 
     claims for disability compensation for veterans who were the 
     subjects of experiments by the Department of Defense during 
     World War II that were conducted to assess the effects of 
     mustard gas or lewisite on people, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. WILLIAMS (for himself, Mr. Cuellar, and Mr. 
             Barr):
       H.R. 1360. A bill to exempt small seller financers from 
     certain licensing requirements; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. ZELDIN (for himself, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, 
             Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. Latta, Mr. Renacci, Mr. 
             Tiberi, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Ellison, Mrs. Blackburn, 
             Ms. DelBene, Mr. Higgins of New York, Mr. Young of 
             Iowa, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, 
             Mrs. McMorris Rodgers, Mr. Lance, Mrs. Black, Mr. 
             Crowley, and Ms. DeLauro):
       H.R. 1361. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for the non-application of Medicare 
     competitive acquisition rates to complex rehabilitative 
     wheelchairs and accessories; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for himself, Ms. 
             Stefanik, Mrs. Mimi

[[Page H1530]]

             Walters of California, Mr. Evans, Mr. Donovan, Ms. 
             Norton, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Huffman, Mr. 
             Delaney, Mr. Khanna, Ms. Speier, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mr. Panetta, Ms. Tsongas, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Correa, Ms. DelBene, Ms. DeLauro, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mrs. Dingell, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Bordallo, 
             Ms. Titus, Ms. Pingree, Mrs. Radewagen, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Larsen of Washington, 
             Ms. Rosen, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Engel, Mr. 
             Takano, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Mr. Sires, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Costa, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Soto, Ms. Adams, 
             Mr. McNerney, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, 
             Ms. Moore, Mrs. Comstock, and Mr. Peters):
       H. Res. 164. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of National Women's History Month; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina:
       H. Res. 165. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives with respect to polio; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Foreign Affairs, and Financial Services, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. AMODEI (for himself and Mr. Welch):
       H. Res. 166. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the United States postal facility 
     network is an asset of significant value and the United 
     States Postal Service should take appropriate measures to 
     maintain, modernize and fully utilize the existing post 
     office network for economic growth; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself and Ms. Norton):
       H. Res. 167. A resolution supporting the designation of the 
     week of February 26 to March 4, 2017, as ``National Spinal 
     CSF Leak Awareness Week''; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois (for himself and Mrs. 
             Davis of California):
       H. Res. 168. A resolution encouraging people in the United 
     States to recognize March 2, 2017, as Read Across America 
     Day; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. NEAL (for himself, Mr. Kennedy, Ms. Pingree, Mr. 
             Welch, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Larson of 
             Connecticut, Mr. Poliquin, Mr. Keating, Mr. Courtney, 
             Mr. Lynch, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Ms. DeLauro, 
             Mr. Moulton, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Mr. Capuano, Ms. Esty, and Mr. Himes):
       H. Res. 169. A resolution congratulating the New England 
     Patriots on their victory in Super Bowl LI; to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. STEFANIK (for herself and Mr. Thompson of 
             California):
       H. Res. 170. A resolution expressing the commitment of the 
     House of Representatives to work to combat the nationwide 
     problem of invasive species threatening native ecosystems; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Agriculture, and Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.

                          ____________________



