

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 38 (Monday, March 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 38 (Monday, March 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1603-S1604]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Booker, 
             Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Coons, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Franken, 
             Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Markey, Ms. 
             Warren, and Mr. Whitehouse):
       S. 528. A bill to amend the Family and Medical Leave Act of 
     1993 to provide leave because of the death of a son or 
     daughter; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself and Mr. Cotton):
       S. 529. A bill to prohibit the use of eminent domain in 
     carrying out certain projects; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. MANCHIN:
       S. 530. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to disclose to 
     non-Department of Veterans Affairs health care providers 
     certain medical records of veterans who receive health care 
     from such providers; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. PAUL:
       S. 531. A bill to amend the Intermodal Surface 
     Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 to designate a portion 
     of the Edward T. Breathitt Parkway as Interstate Route I-169; 
     to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. PAUL:
       S. 532. A bill to prohibit the use of United States 
     Government funds to provide assistance to Al Qaeda, Jabhat 
     Fateh al-Sham, and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant 
     (ISIL) and to countries supporting those organizations, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. NELSON (for himself, Mr. Schumer, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mrs. Feinstein, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. 
             Markey, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Reed, and Mr. 
             Whitehouse):
       S. 533. A bill to modernize the Undetectable Firearms Act 
     of 1988; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Ms. Collins, Mr. 
             Grassley, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Flake, Mr. Donnelly, Mr. 
             Rubio, Mrs. McCaskill, Mrs. Ernst, Ms. Klobuchar, 
             Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. Warren, Ms. Harris, 
             Ms. Cortez Masto, and Mr. Young):
       S. 534. A bill to prevent the sexual abuse of minors and 
     amateur athletes by requiring the prompt reporting of sexual 
     abuse to law enforcement authorities, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. THUNE:
       S. 535. A bill to amend the Water Infrastructure 
     Improvements for the Nation Act to make applicable to the 
     State of South Dakota a provision relating to certain Bureau 
     of Reclamation permit fees; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Isakson, Mr. 
             McConnell, Ms. Murkowski, Mr. Perdue, Mr. Roberts, 
             and Mr. Scott):
       S.J. Res. 32. A joint resolution disapproving the rule 
     submitted by the Department of Labor relating to savings 
     arrangements established by States for non-governmental 
     employees; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Isakson, Mr. 
             McConnell, Ms. Murkowski, Mr. Perdue, Mr. Roberts, 
             and Mr. Scott):

[[Page S1604]]

  

       S.J. Res. 33. A joint resolution disapproving the rule 
     submitted by the Department of Labor relating to savings 
     arrangements established by qualified State political 
     subdivisions for non-governmental employees; to the Committee 
     on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.

                          ____________________



