

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1953-H1954]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          LET'S FIX, NOT FIGHT

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, last week, I had the 
opportunity to gather in Upper Senate Park with thousands of 
individuals from across the country to demand that Congress ``Fix Not 
Fight'' and work together to build a better, safer, and stronger 
nation.
  The No Labels Problem Solvers Conference brought together thousands 
of citizens from across all 50 States to kick-start a year of action in 
creating a more united path forward for our country.
  Proudly, I have been part of this movement from the beginning. As a 
member of the Problem Solvers Caucus, I hope we can all come to the 
table, find common ground, and focus on finding solutions.
  Of course, there are some areas where we are never going to agree, 
and that is okay. Our differences should not divide us. Instead, we 
must exhibit good governance, good leadership, and serve our 
constituents in a manner that is worthy of the office we hold. After 
all, the only way that we will build a better America today and for all 
generations that follow us is if we come together now. Let's get to 
work.


              Support Student Loan Debt Relief for Farmers

  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to talk about 
the cornerstones of our rural communities: our American farmers.
  These men and women are stewards of all of our land and provide the 
country with a safe and affordable food supply, but we need to do more 
to cultivate the next generation of farmers. They face tough odds by 
the very nature of the business, and there is a critical shortfall of 
skilled young and beginning farmers and ranchers.
  That is why, together with Congressman Joe Courtney of Connecticut 
and Congressman John Faso of New York, we introduced the Young Farmer 
Success Act. This legislation will provide incentives for those who 
would like to pursue a future in the agriculture industry by adding 
farmers to the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program, which currently 
offers loan payback assistance for professions such as government 
service, teaching, and nursing.
  Under the program, eligible public service professionals who make 10 
years of income-driven student loan payments can have the balance of 
their loans forgiven.
  Farming is an expensive business to enter, in part because of 
skyrocketing land prices, and beginning farmers often see small profits 
or even losses in their first years of business.
  In 2011, the National Young Farmers Coalition conducted a survey of 
1,000 young farmers and found that 78 percent of respondents struggled 
with a lack of capital.
  A 2014 followup survey of 700 young farmers with student loan debt 
found that the average burden of student loans was $35,000, and that 53 
percent of respondents are currently farming, but have a hard time 
making their student loan payments; while another 30 percent are 
interested in farming, but haven't pursued it as a career because their 
salary as a farmer wouldn't be enough to cover their student loan 
payments.
  Mr. Speaker, food security is national security and it aids the long-

[[Page H1954]]

term sustainability of our country. Our rural communities are in crisis 
and declining. We should do everything in our power to recruit a new 
generation of farmers.
  Did you know that the number of new farmers entering the field of 
agriculture has dropped by 20 percent and the average farmer age has 
now risen above 58 years old? We must encourage new farmers to enter 
this critical industry.
  I urge my colleagues to support the bipartisan Young Farmer Success 
Act. The skyrocketing cost of higher education and the growing burden 
of student loan debt are presenting major obstacles for young ranchers. 
The burden of student loan debt can thwart their ability to purchase 
the farming operations they need to get started and drive them away 
from a career in agriculture altogether.
  Let's pass this bill and help the men and women who put food on the 
table for American families throughout America. Our farmers feed, and 
we should give them every incentive to continue to do so. The American 
people deserve a safe, reliable, and sustainable food source. Our 
farmers provide that.

                          ____________________



