

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 46 (Thursday, March 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 46 (Thursday, March 16, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2151]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                            PETITIONS, ETC.

  Under clause 3 of rule XII, petitions and papers were laid on the 
clerk's desk and referred as follows:

       22. The SPEAKER presented a petition of The Alleghany 
     County, VA, Board of Supervisors, relative to Resolution R-
     17-17, urging all United States Senators and all Members of 
     the House of Representatives to reintroduce and pass the 
     Marketplace Fairness Act; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
       23. Also, a petition of the Council of the Town of South 
     Boston, VA, relative to a Resolution in support of the 
     Marketplace Fairness Act; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
       24. Also, a petition of the Nelson County, VA, Board of 
     Supervisors, relative to Resolution R2017-07, urging the 
     United States Congress to enact the Marketplace Fairness Act 
     or other such legislation; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
       25. Also, a petition of the Student Body of Eastern 
     Michigan University, relative to a Resolution in support for 
     and to urge Congressional Representatives to pass the Bridge 
     Act that is before the 115th Congress; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
       26. Also, a petition of the City Council of Carencro, LA, 
     relative to Resolution 2017-006, urging Congress to pass 
     destination rate-based legislation that would give states the 
     option to collect from remote online retailers the same tax 
     that local brick-and-mortar merchants currently collect; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
       27. Also, a petition of Pascua Yaqui Tribe, Arizona, 
     relative to Resolution No. C02-35-17, supporting the Indian 
     Health Care Improvement Act and Indian-related provisions of 
     the Affordable Care Act; jointly to the Committees on Natural 
     Resources, Energy and Commerce, Ways and Means, and the 
     Budget.


