

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 12 (Monday, January 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 12 (Monday, January 23, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H583-H586]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        IMPROVING RURAL CALL QUALITY AND RELIABILITY ACT OF 2017

  Mr. LANCE. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill 
(H.R. 460) to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to ensure the 
integrity of voice communications and to prevent unjust or unreasonable 
discrimination among areas of the United States in the delivery of such 
communications.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                H.R. 460

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Improving Rural Call Quality 
     and Reliability Act of 2017''.

[[Page H584]]

  


     SEC. 2. ENSURING THE INTEGRITY OF VOICE COMMUNICATIONS.

       Part II of title II of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 
     U.S.C. 251 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
     following:

     ``SEC. 262. ENSURING THE INTEGRITY OF VOICE COMMUNICATIONS.

       ``(a) Registration and Compliance by Intermediate 
     Providers.--An intermediate provider that offers or holds 
     itself out as offering the capability to transmit covered 
     voice communications from one destination to another and that 
     charges any rate to any other entity (including an affiliated 
     entity) for the transmission shall--
       ``(1) register with the Commission; and
       ``(2) comply with the service quality standards for such 
     transmission to be established by the Commission under 
     subsection (c)(1)(B).
       ``(b) Required Use of Registered Intermediate Providers.--A 
     covered provider may not use an intermediate provider to 
     transmit covered voice communications unless such 
     intermediate provider is registered under subsection (a)(1).
       ``(c) Commission Rules.--
       ``(1) In general.--
       ``(A) Registry.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     enactment of this section, the Commission shall promulgate 
     rules to establish a registry to record registrations under 
     subsection (a)(1).
       ``(B) Service quality standards.--Not later than 1 year 
     after the date of enactment of this section, the Commission 
     shall promulgate rules to establish service quality standards 
     for the transmission of covered voice communications by 
     intermediate providers.
       ``(2) Requirements.--In promulgating the rules required by 
     paragraph (1), the Commission shall--
       ``(A) ensure the integrity of the transmission of covered 
     voice communications to all customers in the United States; 
     and
       ``(B) prevent unjust or unreasonable discrimination among 
     areas of the United States in the delivery of covered voice 
     communications.
       ``(d) Public Availability of Registry.--The Commission 
     shall make the registry established under subsection 
     (c)(1)(A) publicly available on the website of the 
     Commission.
       ``(e) Scope of Application.--The requirements of this 
     section shall apply regardless of the format by which any 
     communication or service is provided, the protocol or format 
     by which the transmission of such communication or service is 
     achieved, or the regulatory classification of such 
     communication or service.
       ``(f) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall 
     be construed to affect the regulatory classification of any 
     communication or service.
       ``(g) Effect on Other Laws.--Nothing in this section shall 
     be construed to preempt or expand the authority of a State 
     public utility commission or other relevant State agency to 
     collect data, or investigate and enforce State law and 
     regulations, regarding the completion of intrastate voice 
     communications, regardless of the format by which any 
     communication or service is provided, the protocol or format 
     by which the transmission of such communication or service is 
     achieved, or the regulatory classification of such 
     communication or service.
       ``(h) Exception.--The requirement under subsection (a)(2) 
     to comply with the service quality standards established 
     under subsection (c)(1)(B) shall not apply to a covered 
     provider that--
       ``(1) on or before the date that is 1 year after the date 
     of enactment of this section, has certified as a Safe Harbor 
     provider under section 64.2107(a) of title 47, Code of 
     Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation; and
       ``(2) continues to meet the requirements under such section 
     64.2107(a).
       ``(i) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) Covered provider.--The term `covered provider' has 
     the meaning given the term in section 64.2101 of title 47, 
     Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor thereto.
       ``(2) Covered voice communication.--The term `covered voice 
     communication' means a voice communication (including any 
     related signaling information) that is generated--
       ``(A) from the placement of a call from a connection using 
     a North American Numbering Plan resource or a call placed to 
     a connection using such a numbering resource; and
       ``(B) through any service provided by a covered provider.
       ``(3) Intermediate provider.--The term `intermediate 
     provider' means any entity that--
       ``(A) enters into a business arrangement with a covered 
     provider or other intermediate provider for the specific 
     purpose of carrying, routing, or transmitting voice traffic 
     that is generated from the placement of a call placed--
       ``(i) from an end user connection using a North American 
     Numbering Plan resource; or
       ``(ii) to an end user connection using such a numbering 
     resource; and
       ``(B) does not itself, either directly or in conjunction 
     with an affiliate, serve as a covered provider in the context 
     of originating or terminating a given call.''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from New 
Jersey (Mr. Lance) and the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Michael F. 
Doyle) each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New Jersey.


                             General Leave

  Mr. LANCE. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and 
insert extraneous materials in the Record on the bill.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from New Jersey?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. LANCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 460, the Improving Rural 
Call Quality and Reliability Act, a bill that earned unanimous support 
in the last Congress.
  Consumers expect to be able to pick up the telephone and be connected 
with businesses, friends, and loved ones across the country. In today's 
connected world, that should not be a tall request. Unfortunately, for 
many constituents across the country, particularly in rural areas, call 
quality and reliability are just not up to par compared to their urban 
counterparts.
  This is due, partly, because of the call routing process where long 
distance and wireless providers use so-called least cost routers. These 
inexpensive third-party intermediate providers try to complete calls 
for the lowest possible price, without taking measures to ensure the 
call actually goes through.
  I am sure that most of us have experienced the annoyance of at least 
one failed or dropped call. You make a call to someone and it rings 
over and over again but no one, not even the voicemail, picks up. Or, 
maybe you place a call, only to hear a prerecorded message telling you 
that the number you dialed is not in service, even though you know you 
have the right number. Even in cases where you are able to connect, the 
sound might be distorted or delayed.
  For many constituents, this is more than just an annoyance. These 
missed connections have significant consequences.
  Folks rely on the networks for more than just staying in touch with 
loved ones. Our constituents count on reliable networks to run their 
businesses and receive messages from our community institutions. A 
failed call can mean a lost sale for a small rural business. Another 
failed call might mean that a message from your child's school or your 
medical provider goes undelivered. These are real and harmful impacts. 
This bill will address this situation through commonsense improvements.
  For the most part, consumers are unaware of these intermediate 
providers, which has allowed them to be held unaccountable. H.R. 460 
takes measured steps to bring these intermediate providers out from the 
shadows and into the light so that we can hold them accountable to the 
consuming public.
  First, the bill requires intermediate providers to register with the 
FCC, and it prohibits carriers from using any nonregistered provider. 
The bill also requires the FCC to establish a database and publish the 
list of registered providers on its Web site. Finally, the bill 
requires the FCC to establish quality standards for these intermediate 
providers, which will raise the bar for all of the providers who 
provide call routing services.
  These straightforward measures are another step in our effort, on a 
bipartisan basis, to mitigate call completion and quality issues for 
the consuming public. This bill will build upon the work the FCC has 
done in recent years.
  Our constituents in rural areas face significant challenges compared 
to their urban counterparts, but subpar call quality should not be one 
of them. By raising the bar, which this bill does, we will hold the bad 
actors to higher standards and allow consumers to benefit from the 
improved integrity of our networks.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 
such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I also rise to support H.R. 460, Improving Rural Call 
Quality and Reliability Act, the bipartisan bill introduced by 
Representative David Young and cosponsored by a number of

[[Page H585]]

other Members, including Representatives Welch and Loebsack from the 
Energy and Commerce Committee.
  We deal with a lot of high-tech and complicated issues on the Energy 
and Commerce Committee, but this bill aims to address the most basic 
function for a telephone system: making sure all Americans' phone calls 
go through.
  Many people take our modern communications tools for granted, but, in 
rural America, even the basic function of connecting a call is 
sometimes difficult. Consumers have been reporting to the FCC that 
calls in rural areas result in false busy signals, calls not arriving, 
or long pauses after dialing a number.
  This isn't just an important problem for rural Americans but also for 
people in all of our districts who want to reach loved ones across the 
country and can't. This state of affairs is simply not acceptable. We 
need reliable telephone service to keep us connected.
  Problems with call completion are often related to intermediate 
providers--the middlemen hired to route calls. This bill requires 
intermediate providers to register with the FCC and comply with service 
quality standards.
  These commonsense steps should make it easier to figure out when 
providers are cutting corners or not doing their jobs. Ultimately, the 
bill puts consumers first by helping to make sure that we can stay 
connected to one another.
  H.R. 460 is a bipartisan bill that passed on suspension last 
Congress, and I urge my colleagues to support it today.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. LANCE. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to reclaim the 
balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from New Jersey?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. LANCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from Iowa 
(Mr. Young), the distinguished sponsor of the legislation.
  Mr. YOUNG of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 460, the 
bipartisan Improving Rural Call Quality and Reliability Act, 
legislation I introduced with my colleague from Vermont, Congressman 
Welch.
  This bill helps fix the significant problems rural Iowans and other 
rural Americans face from dropped and poor quality calls. Reliable 
communication is critical for our constituents to live their lives, for 
our businesses to succeed, and for our communities to thrive. Yet, in 
rural States and areas across America, phone calls are not getting 
through or the connection and quality are poor.
  Telephone companies often rely on intermediate providers, who are 
paid to route calls from larger networks to local service providers. 
Much of the time, this is to mixed results.
  There simply is no excuse for these intermediate providers to not 
fulfill their contracts and leave our rural constituents with 
unreliable communication service. Dropped, looped, or poor quality 
calls hurt rural America's quality of life, impacting our small 
businesses, farmers, consumers, and our families who are in need of 
emergency assistance and public services. It also gives unfair blame to 
our essential local service providers when they are not the problem, 
they are the solution.
  A family in rural America should not be disadvantaged because of 
where they live. Iowa businesses should have the same communication 
access to conduct daily businesses as those in urban areas.
  Improving rural call completion rates and quality are important to 
ensuring the survival of small towns and granting Americans the choice 
to live and thrive in whatever community is best for them and their 
family, rural, urban, or anywhere in between.
  Our bill will help address this problem by requiring providers to 
register with the FCC in order to meet quality standards and ensure 
reliable phone service in rural areas. It also prohibits providers from 
using intermediary routing services not registered with the FCC.
  I want to personally thank Chairman Blackburn and Ranking Member 
Pallone for their attention to this important issue, as well as my 
partner in this, Congressman Welch, for the opportunity to get this 
bill passed. This bill did pass the House in the 114th Congress, and I 
am hopeful we can get the partnership we need from the Senate to get 
this to the finish line. Rural Americans deserve it.
  Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time 
as he may consume to the gentleman from Vermont (Mr. Welch), a 
distinguished colleague on the Energy and Commerce Committee.
  Mr. WELCH. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Young for being a great partner 
in the presentation of this bill. Many of us worked together on rural 
telecommunications issues, from getting broadband to all Vermonters and 
folks in rural parts of your districts to improving our wireless 
infrastructure to ensuring we have adequate choice and competition in 
cable markets. That is because it is our desire, and mine especially, 
to ensure that rural America has comparable telecom services to urban 
and suburban America, just as the 1996 Telecommunications Act requires. 
Making that happen requires constant effort and focus.
  We often focus on rural broadband accessibility and affordability so 
that the next generation of technological innovation does not skip 
rural America and leave it behind. The promise of innovation, like the 
Internet of things, should not be earmarked just for urban and suburban 
America, which is why it is backwards and unfortunate that we are still 
talking about finding ways to ensure that traditional landline 
telephone calls can be completed without interruption on a consistent 
basis, but that is exactly what this bill that I worked on with 
Representative Young is getting at.
  Our bill would require the FCC, the Federal Communications 
Commission, to establish rules that require third-party providers--or 
least cost routers, as they are called, which is the problem in the 
call chain--to register their companies, for the first time, with the 
FCC and, therefore, have to comply with FCC service quality 
regulations, just like other companies.
  This legislation would make it easier for the FCC to hold accountable 
third-party providers. The FCC will finally know who they are and make 
them comply with those quality standards.
  This is really important in rural areas because we have got companies 
that do business with urban America. In Vermont, Dakin Farm had rural 
call completion problems during their busiest times in 2012. That was 
the Thanksgiving to Christmas holiday period.
  It really hurt their bottom line. It put them at a competitive 
disadvantage. When people call in and the call is dropped, they think 
it is bad service from Dakin Farm or the company that they are calling, 
when it is not. Those folks have to then deal with the reputational 
harm that is caused.
  It is important in rural school districts like Camels Hump in Vermont 
that rely on these calls when there is a snowstorm or ice storm--and 
there is one coming tonight--to check whether, in fact, they have got 
to get their kids to school or not. So it is a big deal when they need 
it.
  I appreciate, by the way, the work that Representative Young has done 
on this. I look forward to this bill passing both Chambers and being 
signed into law so we can, hopefully, make rural call completion issues 
a thing of the past.

                              {time}  1715

  Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I have no other 
speakers.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. LANCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 460, the 
``Improving Rural Call Quality and Reliability Act of 2017'', which 
amends the Communications Act of 1934 to require voice communications 
that charge users to register with the FCC, and comply with service 
quality standards to be established by the FCC.
  The bill, should it become law, prohibits long-distance providers 
from using an internet provider to transmit voice communications and 
signals unless the intermediate provider is registered.
  H.R. 460 would require the FCC to:
  1. Ensure the integrity of voice communications to all customers in 
the United States,
  2. Prevent unjust or unreasonable discrimination across areas of the 
United States in the delivery of voice communications; and

[[Page H586]]

  3. Make a registry of intermediate providers publicly available on 
the FCC website.
  H.R. 460, the Improving Rural Call Quality and Reliability Act of 
2016, would seek to ensure that calls to Americans living in the rural 
areas of our country actually make it through to the intended receiver.
  Making sure a call goes through, regardless of where it is being 
made, is fundamental to our communications system.
  H.R. 460 would require the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to 
establish basic quality standards for providers that transmit voice 
calls to consumers, among other things.
  The Senate Commerce Committee adopted an amendment in the nature of a 
substitute (AINS) that made the following changes:
  1. Extends deadlines for service quality standards for intermediate 
providers from 180 days to one year,
  2. Exempts intermediate providers that have been certified as a safe 
harbor provider; and
  3. Amends the definition of intermediate provider.
  I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 460, the 
``Improving Rural Call Quality and Reliability Act of 2017.''
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Lance) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 460.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



