

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 36 (Wednesday, March 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 36 (Wednesday, March 1, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1461-H1463]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. DeFAZIO (for himself and Mr. Massie):
       H.R. 1265. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     make modifications to the passenger facility charge program 
     administered by the Federal Aviation Administration, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself and Mr. Buchanan):
       H.R. 1266. A bill to authorize the Secretary of 
     Transportation to make grants to assist units of local 
     government in developing and implementing plans, known as 
     Vision Zero plans, to eliminate transportation-related 
     fatalities and serious injuries, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. SMITH of Missouri (for himself, Mr. Kind, Mr. 
             Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Meehan, 
             Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Bishop of Michigan, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, Mr. Sessions, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Fitzpatrick, 
             and Ms. Sinema):
       H.R. 1267. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to treat certain amounts paid for physical activity, 
     fitness, and exercise as amounts paid for medical care; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SMITH of Nebraska (for himself, Mr. Kind, Mr. 
             Schrader, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Abraham, Ms. Jenkins of 
             Kansas, Ms. Brownley of California, Ms. DelBene, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Mr. Harper, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. McGovern, 
             Mr. Rogers of Alabama, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, 
             and Mrs. Davis of California):
       H.R. 1268. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for an exclusion for assistance provided to 
     participants in certain veterinary student loan repayment or 
     forgiveness programs; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. LaMALFA (for himself and Mr. Garamendi):
       H.R. 1269. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior 
     to take actions to support non-Federal investments in water 
     infrastructure

[[Page H1462]]

     improvements in the Sacramento Valley, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. NADLER (for himself and Ms. Herrera Beutler):
       H.R. 1270. A bill to promote and protect from 
     discrimination living organ donors; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, House Administration, 
     Education and the Workforce, and Financial Services, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio (for himself and Ms. Matsui):
       H.R. 1271. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to prevent the abuse of dextromethorphan, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. RUSH:
       H.R. 1272. A bill to provide for the expeditious disclosure 
     of records related to civil rights cold cases, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. NEWHOUSE (for himself, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Pearce, 
             Mr. Harper, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Marshall, Mr. Chaffetz, 
             and Mr. Tipton):
       H.R. 1273. A bill to amend the Endangered Species Act of 
     1973 to require publication of the basis for determinations 
     that species are endangered species or threatened species, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. NEWHOUSE (for himself, Mr. Tipton, Mr. Abraham, 
             Mr. Gosar, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Harper, Mr. Yoho, Mr. 
             Jones, Mr. Marshall, and Mr. Cramer):
       H.R. 1274. A bill to amend the Endangered Species Act of 
     1973 to require making available to States affected by 
     determinations that species are endangered species or 
     threatened species all data that is the basis of such 
     determinations, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. SESSIONS:
       H.R. 1275. A bill to eliminate the individual and employer 
     health coverage mandates under the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act, to expand beyond that Act the choices in 
     obtaining and financing affordable health insurance coverage, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on Ways and 
     Means, and Education and the Workforce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. ADAMS (for herself, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Fudge, Ms. 
             DeLauro, Mr. Evans, Ms. Plaskett, Ms. DelBene, Ms. 
             Norton, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. Lee, Mr. Larsen of 
             Washington, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Hastings, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Ms. Moore, Mr. Conyers, Ms. Shea-Porter, 
             Mr. Deutch, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Norcross, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Butterfield, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Mr. Rush, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Cohen, Ms. 
             Clarke of New York, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Ms. 
             Jayapal, and Mr. Langevin):
       H.R. 1276. A bill to amend the Food and Nutrition Act of 
     2008 to require that supplemental nutrition assistance 
     program benefits be calculated with reference to the cost of 
     the low-cost food plan as determined by the Secretary of 
     Agriculture, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN:
       H.R. 1277. A bill to permit indefinite extensions for 
     certain previously extended Medicaid managed care waivers; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. ESPAILLAT (for himself, Mr. Schneider, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Ms. Norton, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Raskin, 
             Mr. Deutch, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. 
             Gutierrez, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Cardenas, and Mr. 
             Swalwell of California):
       H.R. 1278. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     require firearm assembly kits to be considered to be 
     firearms; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. ESTY (for herself, Mr. King of New York, Ms. 
             McCollum, and Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 1279. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish within 
     the Department of Veterans Affairs a center of excellence in 
     the prevention, diagnosis, mitigation, treatment, and 
     rehabilitation of health conditions relating to exposure to 
     burn pits; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Armed Services, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. FORTENBERRY:
       H.R. 1280. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to increase the maximum contribution limit for health 
     savings accounts, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN:
       H.R. 1281. A bill to extend the authorization of the 
     Highlands Conservation Act; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. GARRETT (for himself and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 1282. A bill to amend the Homeland Security of 2002 to 
     establish Acquistion Review Boards in the Department of 
     Homeland Security, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. HULTGREN (for himself, Mr. David Scott of 
             Georgia, and Mr. Messer):
       H.R. 1283. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to require the disclosure of the annual percentage rates 
     applicable to Federal student loans; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. JENKINS of Kansas (for herself and Mr. Thompson 
             of California):
       H.R. 1284. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for the recognition of attending 
     physician assistants as attending physicians to serve hospice 
     patients, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KILMER:
       H.R. 1285. A bill to designate and expand wilderness areas 
     in Olympic National Forest in the State of Washington, and to 
     designate certain rivers in Olympic National Forest and 
     Olympic National Park as wild and scenic rivers, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KIND:
       H.R. 1286. A bill to require the Secretary of Education to 
     use the excess revenue generated from the William D. Ford 
     Federal Direct Loan Program to carry out the Federal Pell 
     Grant Program; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mr. Espaillat, Ms. Lee, Mr. Raskin, Mr. 
             Nadler, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Frankel of 
             Florida, Mr. Veasey, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. 
             Quigley, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Gene Green of 
             Texas, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. Correa, Mr. Perlmutter, Mrs. 
             Dingell, Mr. Castro of Texas, Mr. Serrano, Mr. 
             Keating, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Higgins of New York, Mr. 
             Tonko, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Mr. Cicilline, 
             Mr. Peterson, Mr. Vela, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Cummings, 
             Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. O'Halleran, Ms. 
             Plaskett, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mr. Peters, Mr. 
             Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mr. Danny 
             K. Davis of Illinois, Mrs. Torres, Mr. Panetta, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Mr. Thompson of California, Ms. Matsui, Mr. 
             Nolan, Mr. Evans, Mr. Suozzi, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Clay, Mr. Neal, Mr. 
             Lynch, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Garamendi, Ms. 
             Hanabusa, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. 
             Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             McEachin, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Engel, Mr. Welch, Ms. 
             Barragan, and Mrs. Bustos):
       H.R. 1287. A bill to require that any Executive order be 
     published on the White House website not less than 72 hours 
     before the Executive order is signed; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire (for herself, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Grijalva, 
             and Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York):
       H.R. 1288. A bill to direct the Secretary of Education to 
     carry out a grant program for early childhood STEM 
     activities; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Ms. 
             Clarke of New York, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Ms. Bordallo, Miss 
             Rice of New York, Ms. Norton, Mrs. Dingell, and Mr. 
             Soto):
       H.R. 1289. A bill to establish the Social Work Reinvestment 
     Commission to provide independent counsel to Congress and the 
     Secretary of Health and Human Services on policy issues 
     related to recruitment, retention, research, and reinvestment 
     in the profession of social work, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Serrano, Ms. 
             McCollum, and Mr. Grijalva):
       H.R. 1290. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to improve access to mental health services 
     under the Medicare program; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. NORTON (for herself, Ms. Adams, Ms. Bass, Mrs. 
             Beatty, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Carson of Indiana, 
             Mr. Cartwright, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Clarke of 
             New

[[Page H1463]]

             York, Mr. Clay, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Clyburn, Mr. Cohen, 
             Mr. Connolly, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Courtney, Mr. Crowley, 
             Mr. Cummings, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. 
             DeFazio, Ms. DeGette, Mr. Delaney, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Engel, Ms. 
             Eshoo, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Ms. Fudge, Mr. 
             Gallego, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             Gutierrez, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Huffman, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Jeffries, Ms. Eddie Bernice 
             Johnson of Texas, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Kaptur, 
             Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. 
             Langevin, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, Mrs. Lawrence, 
             Ms. Lee, Mr. Levin, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Ted 
             Lieu of California, Mr. Lipinski, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mrs. Lowey, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of 
             New Mexico, Mr. Lynch, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New 
             York, Ms. McCollum, Mr. McGovern, Mr. McNerney, Mr. 
             Meeks, Ms. Moore, Mr. Nadler, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. 
             Nolan, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. 
             Payne, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Peters, Ms. Plaskett, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Polis, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Mr. 
             Raskin, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. Rush, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Sablan, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. 
             Sarbanes, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. 
             Serrano, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. 
             Speier, Mr. Takano, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. 
             Tonko, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Veasey, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Walz, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Ms. 
             Maxine Waters of California, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. 
             Welch, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. 
             Quigley, and Mr. Larsen of Washington):
       H.R. 1291. A bill to provide for the admission of the State 
     of Washington, D.C. into the Union; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Rules, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. POSEY (for himself, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, and Mr. 
             Trott):
       H.R. 1292. A bill to amend the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act 
     of 2002 to allow for the use of certain assets of foreign 
     persons and entities to satisfy certain judgments against 
     terrorist parties, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ROSS:
       H.R. 1293. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     require that the Office of Personnel Management submit an 
     annual report to Congress relating to the use of official 
     time by Federal employees; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. RUTHERFORD (for himself and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 1294. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to provide for congressional notification regarding 
     major acquisition program breaches, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. SIRES (for himself and Mr. Young of Iowa):
       H.R. 1295. A bill to amend the Peace Corps Act to allow 
     former volunteers and officers and employees to use the seal, 
     emblem, or name of Peace Corps on death announcements and 
     grave stones; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. TIBERI (for himself, Mr. Neal, Mr. Renacci, Mr. 
             Larson of Connecticut, Mr. Paulsen, Mr. Kind, and 
             Mrs. Beatty):
       H.R. 1296. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide appropriate rules for the application of the 
     deduction for income attributable to domestic production 
     activities with respect to certain contract manufacturing or 
     production arrangements; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN:
       H.R. 1297. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to make technical corrections to the requirement that 
     the Secretary of Homeland Security submit quadrennial 
     homeland security reviews, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. WENSTRUP (for himself and Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois):
       H.R. 1298. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to cover screening computed tomography 
     colonography as a colorectal cancer screening test under the 
     Medicare program; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Minnesota:
       H.J. Res. 84. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by the Department of 
     Transportation relating to ``Metropolitan Planning 
     Organization Coordination and Planning Area Reform''; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. GALLAGHER (for himself and Mr. Johnson of 
             Louisiana):
       H.J. Res. 85. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States limiting the number of 
     terms Senators and Representatives may serve; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FORTENBERRY (for himself, Mr. Smith of Nebraska, 
             and Mr. Bacon):
       H. Con. Res. 32. Concurrent resolution congratulating the 
     State of Nebraska on the 150th anniversary of the admission 
     of that State into the United States; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. 
             Matsui, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Langevin, 
             Ms. Roybal-Allard, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New 
             Mexico, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Pingree, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mr. McNerney, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of 
             New York, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. 
             Deutch, Ms. Titus, and Ms. Slaughter):
       H. Res. 160. A resolution amending the Rules of the House 
     of Representatives to establish a Permanent Select Committee 
     on Aging; to the Committee on Rules.
           By Ms. FUDGE (for herself and Mr. Tiberi):
       H. Res. 161. A resolution recognizing the 100th anniversary 
     of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, the world's 
     largest organization of food and nutrition professionals; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself, Ms. Speier, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, Mrs. Beatty, Ms. Brownley of California, 
             Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
             Mr. Cohen, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Delaney, Mr. DeSaulnier, 
             Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Donovan, Mr. Ellison, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Mr. Evans, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. 
             Himes, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Jenkins of 
             West Virginia, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, Mr. Jones, Ms. 
             Kaptur, Mr. Knight, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. 
             Langevin, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, Mrs. Lawrence, 
             Ms. Lee, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Lowenthal, 
             Ms. Meng, Ms. Moore, Ms. Norton, Mr. Pallone, Mr. 
             Panetta, Mr. Peters, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Rush, Mr. 
             Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. 
             Smith of Nebraska, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. 
             Takano, Ms. Titus, Mr. Thompson of California, Mrs. 
             Torres, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Walz, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Yarmuth, and Mr. Farenthold):
       H. Res. 162. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of March 21, 2017, as ``National Rosie the 
     Riveter Day''; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. PAYNE:
       H. Res. 163. A resolution supporting the designation of 
     March 2017, as National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.

                          ____________________



