

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1305-S1306]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 16

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) was added as a cosponsor of S. 16, a bill to require a 
full audit of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and 
the Federal reserve banks by the Comptroller General of the United 
States, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 27

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 27, a bill to establish an 
independent commission to examine and report on the facts regarding the 
extent of Russian official and unofficial cyber operations and other 
attempts to interfere in the 2016 United States national election, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 37

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 37, a bill to 
require U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to take into custody 
certain aliens who have been charged in the United States with a crime 
that resulted in the death or serious bodily injury of another person, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 65

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) and the Senator from New York (Mr. Schumer) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 65, a bill to address financial 
conflicts of interest of the President and Vice President.


                                 S. 108

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 108, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on medical 
devices.


                                 S. 109

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 109, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for coverage 
under the Medicare program of pharmacist services.


                                 S. 150

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 150, a bill to amend title 
18, United States Code, to provide an additional tool to prevent 
certain frauds against veterans, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 170

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Kentucky 
(Mr. McConnell) was added as a cosponsor of S. 170, a bill to provide 
for nonpreemption of measures by State and local governments to divest 
from entities that engage in commerce-related or investment-related 
boycott, divestment, or sanctions activities targeting Israel, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 203

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 203, a bill to 
reaffirm that the Environmental Protection Agency may not regulate 
vehicles used solely for competition, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) and the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Tillis) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 236, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic beverages.


                                 S. 242

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Kentucky 
(Mr. Paul) was added as a cosponsor of S. 242, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to permit veterans to grant access to their 
records in the databases of the Veterans Benefits Administration to 
certain designated congressional employees, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 251

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 251, a bill to repeal the 
Independent Payment Advisory Board in order to ensure that it cannot be 
used to undermine the Medicare entitlement for beneficiaries.


                                 S. 294

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 294, a bill to amend the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to clarify the Food and Drug 
Administration's jurisdiction over certain tobacco products, and to 
protect jobs and small businesses involved in the sale, manufacturing 
and distribution of traditional and premium cigars.


                                 S. 301

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 301, a bill to amend 
the Public Health Service Act to prohibit governmental discrimination 
against providers of health services that are not involved in abortion.

[[Page S1306]]

  



                                 S. 315

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 315, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of the Army to place in Arlington National Cemetery a 
monument honoring the helicopter pilots and crewmembers who were killed 
while serving on active duty in the Armed Forces during the Vietnam 
era, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 324, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to improve the provision of adult day health care 
services for veterans.


                                 S. 350

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 350, a bill to 
amend the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to prohibit Members of 
Congress from receiving a discounted price in certain private offerings 
of securities.


                                 S. 368

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. McCain) was added as a cosponsor of S. 368, a bill to require the 
Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service to issue a 
scientifically valid and State-supported recovery plan for the Mexican 
gray wolf.


                                 S. 379

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the names of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed), the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), the 
Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) and the Senator from California (Mrs. 
Feinstein) were added as cosponsors of S. 379, a bill to amend title II 
of the Social Security Act to eliminate the five month waiting period 
for disability insurance benefits under such title for individuals with 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.


                              S.J. RES. 5

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 5, a 
joint resolution removing the deadline for the ratification of the 
equal rights amendment.


                              S.J. RES. 16

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 16, a joint 
resolution approving the discontinuation of the process for 
consideration and automatic implementation of the annual proposal of 
the Independent Medicare Advisory Board under section 1899A of the 
Social Security Act.

                          ____________________



