

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 57 (Monday, April 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 57 (Monday, April 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2175-S2176]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 89

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the name of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 89, a bill to 
amend title 46, United States Code, to exempt old vessels that only 
operate within inland waterways from the fire-retardant materials 
requirement if the owners of such vessels make annual structural 
alterations to at least 10 percent of the areas of the vessels that are 
not constructed of fire-retardant materials and for other purposes.


                                 S. 175

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 175, a bill to amend the 
Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to transfer certain 
funds to the Multiemployer Health Benefit Plan and the 1974 United Mine 
Workers of America Pension Plan, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 178

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 178, a bill to 
prevent elder abuse and exploitation and improve the justice system's 
response to victims in elder abuse and exploitation cases.


                                 S. 198

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 198, a bill to require continued 
and enhanced annual reporting to Congress in the Annual Report on 
International Religious Freedom on anti-Semitic incidents in Europe, 
the safety and security of European Jewish communities, and the efforts 
of the United States to partner with European governments, the European 
Union, and civil society groups, to combat anti-Semitism, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 324, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to improve the provision of adult day 
health care services for veterans.


                                 S. 339

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the names of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 339, a bill to amend title 10, United 
States Code, to repeal the requirement for reduction of survivor 
annuities under the Survivor Benefit Plan by veterans' dependency and 
indemnity compensation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the names of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto), the Senator from Washington (Ms. Cantwell) and the 
Senator from Maryland (Mr. Cardin) were added as cosponsors of S. 382, 
a bill to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop 
a voluntary registry to collect data on cancer incidence among 
firefighters.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the names of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) and the Senator from Missouri (Mr. Blunt) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 407, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
to permanently extend the railroad track maintenance credit.


                                 S. 413

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 413, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to prohibit prescription drug plan 
sponsors and MA-PD organizations under the Medicare program from 
retroactively reducing payment on clean claims submitted by pharmacies.


                                 S. 430

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Barrasso) was added as a cosponsor of S. 430, a bill to provide 
for compliance enforcement regarding Russian violations of the 
Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 445, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure more timely access to 
home health services for Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare 
program.


                                 S. 473

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Washington

[[Page S2176]]

(Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 473, a bill the amend 
title 38, United States Code, to make qualification requirements for 
entitlement to Post-9/11 Education Assistance more equitable, to 
improve support of veterans receiving such educational assistance, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 540, a bill to limit the 
authority of States to tax certain income of employees for employment 
duties performed in other States.


                                 S. 544

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 544, a bill to amend Veterans 
Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 to modify the 
termination date for the Veterans Choice Program, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 583

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons), the Senator from 
Arkansas (Mr. Cotton), the Senator from North Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp), 
the Senator from West Virginia (Mr. Manchin), the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) and the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 583, a bill to amend the Omnibus Crime 
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to authorize COPS grantees to use 
grant funds to hire veterans as career law enforcement officers, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 593

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. Flake) was added as a cosponsor of S. 593, a bill to amend the 
Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to facilitate the 
establishment of additional or expanded public target ranges in certain 
States.


                                 S. 616

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 616, a bill to amend 
section 721 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 to include the 
Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
as members of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States 
and to require the Committee to consider the security of the food and 
agriculture systems of the United States as a factor to be considered 
when determining to take action with respect to foreign investment, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 623

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 623, a bill to 
enhance the transparency and accelerate the impact of assistance 
provided under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to promote quality 
basic education in developing countries, to better enable such 
countries to achieve universal access to quality basic education and 
improved learning outcomes, to eliminate duplication and waste, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 655

  At the request of Mr. Risch, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 655, a bill to exempt certain 
16- and 17-year-old individuals employed in logging operations from 
child labor laws.


                                 S. 681

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 681, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to improve the benefits and services provided 
by the Department of Veterans Affairs to women veterans, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 692

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 692, a bill to 
provide for integrated plan permits, to establish an Office of the 
Municipal Ombudsman, to promote green infrastructure, and to require 
the revision of financial capability guidance.


                                 S. 733

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the name of the Senator from 
Tennessee (Mr. Alexander) was added as a cosponsor of S. 733, a bill to 
protect and enhance opportunities for recreational hunting, fishing, 
and shooting, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 751

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 751, a bill to amend title 54, 
United States Code, to establish, fund, and provide for the use of 
amounts in a National Park Service Legacy Restoration Fund to address 
the maintenance backlog of the National Park Service, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 774

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the names of the Senator from New 
York (Mrs. Gillibrand) and the Senator from Hawaii (Mr. Schatz) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 774, a bill to address the psychological, 
developmental, social, and emotional needs of children, youth, and 
families who have experienced trauma, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 792

  At the request of Mr. Tillis, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Warner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 792, a bill to amend the 
Immigration and Nationality Act to establish an H-2B temporary non-
agricultural work visa program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 796

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 796, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the exclusion for 
employer-provided education assistance to employer payments of student 
loans.


                              S.J. RES. 11

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 11, a joint 
resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of 
title 5, United States Code, of the final rule of the Bureau of Land 
Management relating to ``Waste Prevention, Production Subject to 
Royalties, and Resource Conservation''.


                               S. RES. 54

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the names of the Senator from 
Virginia (Mr. Kaine) and the Senator from Wisconsin (Mr. Johnson) were 
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 54, a resolution expressing the 
unwavering commitment of the United States to the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization.

                          ____________________



