

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 1 (Tuesday, January 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 1 (Tuesday, January 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S7]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREEMENTS

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I send to the desk, en bloc, 11 
unanimous consent requests, and I ask for their immediate consideration 
en bloc. I further ask that the requests be agreed to en bloc, the 
motions to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table, and 
that they appear separately in the Record.
  Before the Chair rules, I would like to point out that these requests 
are routine and done at the beginning of each new Congress.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that for the duration of the 
115th Congress, the Ethics Committee be authorized to meet during the 
session of the Senate.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that for the duration of the 
115th Congress, there be a limitation of 15 minutes each upon any 
rollcall vote, with the warning signal to be sounded at the midway 
point, beginning at the last 7\1/2\ minutes, and when rollcall votes 
are of 10-minute duration, the warning signal be sounded at the 
beginning of the last 7\1/2\ minutes.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that during the 115th 
Congress, it be in order for the Secretary of the Senate to receive 
reports at the desk when presented by a Senator at any time during the 
day of the session of the Senate.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the majority and minority 
leaders may daily have up to 10 minutes each on each calendar day 
following the prayer and disposition of the reading of, or the approval 
of, the Journal.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that notwithstanding the 
provisions of rule XXVIII, conference reports and statements 
accompanying them not be printed as Senate reports when such conference 
reports and statements have been printed as a House report unless 
specific request is made in the Senate in each instance to have such a 
report printed.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on 
Appropriations be authorized during the 115th Congress to file reports 
during the adjournments or recesses of the Senate on appropriations 
bills, including joint resolutions, together with any accompanying 
notices of motions to suspend rule XVI, pursuant to rule V, for the 
purpose of offering certain amendments to such bills or joint 
resolutions, which proposed amendments shall be printed.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that, for the duration of the 
115th Congress, the Secretary of the Senate be authorized to make 
technical and clerical corrections in the engrossments of all Senate-
passed bills and joint resolutions, Senate amendments to House bills 
and resolutions, Senate amendments to House amendments to Senate bills 
and resolutions, and Senate amendments to House amendments to Senate 
amendments to House bills or resolutions.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that, for the duration of the 
115th Congress, when the Senate is in recess or adjournment the 
Secretary of the Senate is authorized to receive messages from the 
President of the United States, and--with the exception of House bills, 
joint resolutions and concurrent resolutions--messages from the House 
of Representatives; and that they be appropriately referred; and that 
the President of the Senate, the President pro tempore, and the Acting 
President pro tempore be authorized to sign duly enrolled bills and 
joint resolutions.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that, for the duration of the 
115th Congress, Senators be allowed to leave at the desk with the 
Journal clerk the names of two staff members who will be granted the 
privilege of the floor during the consideration of the specific matter 
noted, and that the Sergeant at-Arms be instructed to rotate staff 
members as space allows.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that, for the duration of the 
115th Congress, it be in order to refer treaties and nominations on the 
day when they are received from the President, even when the Senate has 
no executive session that day.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that, for the duration of the 
115th Congress, Senators may be allowed to bring to the desk bills, 
joint resolutions, concurrent resolutions and simple resolutions, for 
referral to appropriate committees.
  The PRESIDENT pro tempore. Is there objection to agreeing to the 
unanimous consent requests en bloc?
  Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



