

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 11 (Friday, January 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 11 (Friday, January 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S349-S355]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                              NOMINATIONS

  The ACTING PRESIDENT protempore. The Senate will proceed to executive 
session to consider the following nominations, which the clerk will 
report.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nominations of James 
Mattis, of Washington, to be Secretary of Defense; andJohn F. Kelly, of 
Virginia, to be Secretary of Homeland Security.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The majority leader.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, let me just, for the information of all 
Members, point outthat after we vote on Mattis and Kelly, we will turn 
to the Pompeo nomination, begin that debate, and hopefully finish it 
atsome point tonight.
  I yield the floor.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator from Arizona.
  Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, there is not a lot of benefit in being 
around here for a long period of time, but Iremember very well in 
January of 2009, when the new President of the United States and, in a 
spirit of enthusiasm andbipartisanship, the Senate, on the first day of 
the inauguration, approved of seven Cabinet members, seven--not two, as 
we arepresently contemplating, but seven. All of those individuals, as 
I recall, had some degree of concern about them, had somedegree of 
controversy--some more, some less. But the fact is, we moved forward 
and almost unanimously voted in favor of theseCabinet members for the 
simple reason that the American people had spoken, and we had a new 
President of a different party, andwe ought to give that President the 
team that he needed in order to get his job done.
  Now, the one difference between what Ihave seen here in 2017, since 
2009, is that the world is on fire. Look at the world today, and look 
at a map of it in 2009.There weren't 6 million refugees out of Syria. 
There weren't 400,000 people murdered by Bashar al-Assad with the 
assistance ofVladimir Putin and the Iranian Revolutionary Guard. We 
didn't have Russians using precision-guided weapons, striking 
hospitalsin Aleppo, slaughtering innocent men, women, and children. We 
didn't have the Chinese acting in the most belligerent fashion inthe 
South China Sea, asserting their sovereignty over an

[[Page S350]]

international waterway through which about 60 percent of theworld's 
economy moves, as they are now.
  We didn't have Vladimir Putin invading Crimea in a violation of the 
Budapestagreement, in which Ukraine gave up their nuclear weapons 
arsenal in exchange for a guarantee of the territorial integrity 
ofUkraine that included Crimea. We didn't have Vladimir Putin invading 
the land of Ukraine and partitioning it and slaughteringsome 10,000 
brave Ukrainians who stood up against that invasion while, by the way, 
we wouldn't even give them lethal weapons todefend themselves.
  We have a world on fire. And we have a nominee to be the Director of 
the CIA. I happen to knowCongressman Pompeo very well. I happen to 
admire his work. I happened to notice in the hearing that there was 
reallyrelatively no controversy associated with his candidacy, with his 
nomination to be the Director of the CIA.
  So my questionto my dear friends on the other side of the aisle is: 
Why the hell won't we just go ahead and give the President his 
nationalsecurity team when we need it more than at any time in recent 
history?
  The American people have spoken about who they wantto be Commander in 
Chief. Now let's give the Commander in Chief his Secretary of Defense, 
his Secretary of Homeland Security,and let's give him a leader of our 
intelligence community, the CIA. And, by God, when you look at the 
controversy surroundingour intelligence agencies--which is gigantic--we 
need a new Director of the CIA more than ever.
  TheAmerican people made a decision, but they also voiced--at least in 
my campaign, and I can only speak, frankly, for my own--a 
greatdissatisfaction about the fact that we don't work together, the 
fact that we don't sit down and talk about these things and getsome 
kind of working arrangement. Well, how do you do that when we won't 
even allow a noncontroversial nominee for the Directorof the CIA to be 
confirmed? I don't get it.
  What is the point here? Is the point that we are just going to show 
theRepublicans by slow-walking their nominees? Is that what the point 
of this is? If it is, then in my view, you are contradictingthe will of 
the American people and the verdict of the American people.
  I know there is controversy about the fact thatSecretary Clinton got 
a larger number of the popular vote. I know the controversy that there 
were narrow victories in some ofthe States. But the fact is that no one 
in their right mind has challenged the fact that the President of the 
United States,whose inauguration took place today, is the President of 
the United States.
  So why would we want to--right out of the box,right out of the box, 
right immediately, at an incredibly controversial time--block a member 
of his Cabinet who needs to takecharge with the confidence of the U.S. 
Senate that he will do a job and, frankly, restore--whether you happen 
to like theoutgoing team or not. And if you want to praise them, fine; 
if you want to support them, fine. But the fact is, there is a 
hugecontroversy about our intelligence community. In fact, some of 
that, in my view, has been contributed to by the now-President ofthe 
United States with his comments about the intelligence community.
  But on both sides of the aisle, we respect and admireCongressman 
Pompeo, who is well qualified. Is there anyone who has said he is not 
qualified? Is there anyone on the otherside who said that Pompeo is not 
qualified; we haven't examined his record enough? I don't think so. If 
so, I haven't heardit.
  But is the message now: We are just going to slow-walk the 
Republicans because we don't like the outcome of theelection? I don't 
think that is the message that I would like to send from our side.
  Have we, on our side, slow-walked fromtime to time? Have we done 
everything right? I am not defending everything that we have done on 
this side. But I do argue that,in January of 2009, we confirmed seven 
members of the President's team on the first day.
  Mr.CORNYN. Mr. President, will the Senator yield for a question?
  Mr. McCAIN. I am glad to yieldfor a question.
  Mr. CORNYN. I ask the distinguished chairman of the Armed Services 
Committeewhether a period of transition from one administration to 
another is a time of particular vulnerability to the UnitedStates, at a 
time when we are transitioning not only to a new administration but 
also to a new national security Cabinet.
  Isn't this a time of particular vulnerability for the United States?
  Mr. McCAIN. Mr.President, I ask unanimous consent that I be yielded 
an additional 2 minutes.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Withoutobjection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I would just like to say to myfriend from 
Texas, our leader, that there is enormous controversy about our 
intelligence community overall. Questions have beenraised going all the 
way back to weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, questions about what 
we know or don't know about Russianinvolvement in the last election.
  It seems to me that all of the things that the Senator from Texas 
just said argue for arapid transition to a person we all trust.
  I would ask the Senator from Texas very quickly: Has he heard someone 
who objectsto Congressman Pompeo assuming the role of Director of the 
CIA?
  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, Iam responding to the Senator from 
Arizona.
  I am not confident that he will get a unanimous vote here, but he 
will certainlybe confirmed resoundingly under the rules established by 
the Democratic majority in the last Congress, which allow 51 votes 
forconfirmation.
  Mr. McCAIN. Respectfully and with high regard, I would just ask my 
colleagueson the other side of the aisle--let's get this intelligence 
team to work. Let's put them together. We will have 
outstandingindividuals in a time when, in the view of most observers, 
this Nation is in greater peril than it has been in 70 years.
  This is a very, very serious situation we find ourselves in. The 
people have spoken. Let's confirm them today.
  I yieldthe floor.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator from Rhode Island.
  Mr. REED. Mr.President, I have the privilege of being the ranking 
member of the Armed Services Committee, working with Senator McCainwith 
respect to the nomination of General Mattis.
  I am strongly in favor of the general's confirmation for many 
reasons. Hepossesses three distinct qualities that are absolutely 
critical: confidence, courage, and character. And he will 
eminentlydemonstrate those virtues as Secretary of Defense, in my view.
  I would like to also inform the body and everyone else thatwe just 
did this in a very thorough, careful, thoughtful way.
  General Mattis was subject to a 60-vote procedural votebecause we had 
to waive his time from retirement to his ability to serve as Secretary 
of Defense.
  Wehad a hearing under the auspices of the chairman about the policy 
with two noted historians and policy experts. Then we had ahearing with 
General Mattis. We have collectively--and the chairman's leadership is 
invaluable--moved to ensure that today we canconfirm General Mattis.
  This has been an opportunity that we have not used to delay, defer, 
or deflect the Mattisnomination. In fact, it was the one that we all 
recognized that would have been subject to a 60-vote point of order. So 
thisrepresents the demonstrated good faith of our focus to ensure that 
we can get people in place for the President.
  With that,I yield to the Senator from Oregon, Mr. Wyden.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator from Oregon.
  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I will be very brief, just to respond to my 
good friend from Arizona whosaid that the Senate not taking up Pompeo 
would be contradicting the will of the people. That is not the case at 
all. This isabout whether the Senate is going to be a rubberstamp and 
whether the Senate is in effect going to abdicate its responsibilityto 
do oversight.
  Let me just mention four points real quickly.
  No. 1, this nomination has not been considered in theIntelligence 
Committee. It could have been. It was not.

[[Page S351]]

No. 2, we have not been able to get answers to our questions. Amajor 
question in particular, this body voted to sideline a law that 
collected phone records on law-abiding Americans.Congressman Pompeo has 
proposed something that makes the law we sidelined look like small 
potatoes. He is talking aboutcollecting lifestyle information on all 
Americans. We are trying to get an answer about whether there are any 
legal boundariesat all. We have not been able to get them. That is 
argument No. 2.
  Argument No. 3 is that we have never confirmed oninauguration day a 
CIA Director. That is the history of this particular nomination. No. 4, 
I want to talk about the realities ofnational security because I share 
the view of the chairman of the committee that this is a dangerous 
time. That is not up fordebate. There are lots of people out there who 
do not wish our country well. If we were to have a tragedy tonight 
ortomorrow--heaven forbid that happens to our great country--if it did, 
we would have the talented senior people at the CIA there toprotect our 
country, and I would submit, however you feel about Mr. Pompeo, the 
reality is that if he got confirmed tonightor tomorrow, and heaven 
forbid there was that tragedy, we would still be relying on those 
trained, talented professionals at theCIA who have been there, in some 
cases for decades, to protect our country when we are vulnerable.
  That is what this is allabout, ensuring that we actually have some 
discussion here when there are outstanding questions. Senator Leahy, 
SenatorBlumenthal, and I have all said we just believe there ought to 
be some debate. There hasn't been any in the IntelligenceCommittee. 
There hasn't been any on the floor. I have gone through the history of 
this nomination and explained what wouldhappen if a tragedy were to 
befall our great country. That is why I think we ought to have a debate 
in broad daylight, not whenSenators are trying to figure out if their 
tux is going to fit and we can't get people into a real discussion.
  The ACTINGPRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator from Arizona.
  Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, let me just sayto my colleagues that I 
have had the great honor in my life of knowing some outstanding 
military leaders. I consider it one ofthe highlights of my life being 
around one of these great leaders.
  I want to share with my colleagues that I haven't seen afiner leader, 
a more outstanding and respected leader, and a more beloved leader than 
the man we are going to be voting on to bethe Secretary of Defense, 
James Mattis.
  My friends, I am very confident that when we finish this vote, the 
morale all overthe U.S. military will go up because they will know they 
have a leader and a leader they can not only respect but they admireand 
in many cases have great affection for. So I urge my colleagues to vote 
aye on the Mattis nomination.
  Mr. President, today on the steps of this Capitol, our Nation 
completedanother peaceful transition of power and inaugurated a new 
President. This is a sacred rite of our democracy, one that so manyhave 
given their lives to make possible. And as free citizens, we should 
count ourselves fortunate to have witnessed it.
  Asour new Commander In Chief assumes the awesome responsibilities of 
his office and with threats to our national security growingin scope 
and severity, it is imperative that the Senate act quickly to provide 
advice and consent for the new cabinet,especially for the new Secretary 
of Defense.
  Have no doubt: our adversaries will test us in the coming days and 
weeks. Andwhen they do, I want our Commander In Chief to have Gen. 
James Mattis at his side.
  I have had the privilege of knowingGeneral Mattis for many years. He 
is, without a doubt, one of the finest military officers of his 
generation and anextraordinary leader who inspires a rare and special 
admiration of his troops. In fact, since his selection to be our 
nextSecretary of Defense, I have received countless messages of support 
from those who had the honor of serving with him.
  At hisconfirmation hearing before the Senate Armed Services 
Committee, General Mattis demonstrated exceptional command of the 
issuesconfronting the United States, the Department of Defense, and our 
military servicemembers. He also showed that his understandingof civil-
military relations is deep and that his commitment to civilian control 
of the Armed Forces is ironclad.
  Over morethan four decades of service, General Mattis's character, 
judgment, and commitment to defending our Nation and our 
Constitutionhave earned him the trust of Presidents, Members of 
Congress on both sides of the aisle, and so many serving in our 
ArmedForces.
  That is why the Senate Armed Services Committee approved General 
Mattis's nomination this Wednesday with anoverwhelming bipartisan vote 
of 26 to 1. I hope the Senate will follow suit with a strong vote to 
put General Mattis to work atthe Pentagon. America will be fortunate to 
have General Mattis at her service once again.
  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, today I will vote for James Mattis to bethe 
next Secretary of Defense. General Mattis stands out as a top 
practitioner in his field. He has earned--and rightlydeserves--near-
universal respect. While I opposed the hurried waiving of a carefully 
considered statutory cooling off period formembers of the military 
before they can become eligible for this civilian position, I made 
clear then, and restate now, that myopposition to this waiver was never 
about General Mattis himself.
  I was grateful when General Mattis said in his confirmationhearing 
that, even from his first days as a marine, he has observed that, in 
the photographs on the walls of Department ofDefense establishments, 
the civilians in suits were above those of the men and women in 
uniforms. I was pleased that he vowed touphold that meaningful 
tradition. I am confident that, as the President's top adviser on 
matters of defense, as Secretary,General Mattis will carefully provide 
considered defense advice, maximizing the wisdom of not only the 
Active, Reserve, andNational Guard, but the whole of the Department of 
Defense, including Department civilians.
  Donald Trump will sorely needthat experience and advice. Last 
weekend, President Trump again denigrated our NATO allies, a 
partnership that President Kennedyvery much had in mind when he vowed 
at his own inauguration to ``pay any price, bear any burden, meet any 
hardship, support anyfriend, and oppose any foe to assure the survival 
and success of liberty.'' General Mattis clearly understands the value 
of ourNATO alliance. His condemnation of Russia's efforts to ``break'' 
NATO stands in stark contrast to the position of the man whohas 
nominated him and, to me, demonstrates the sound, experienced reasoning 
that will provide a necessary balance to PresidentTrump.
  I do harbor reservations about General Mattis's past statements as a 
private citizen related to equality within theranks of our 
servicemembers. I would have much preferred to hear General Mattis 
renounced those past statements, but I doappreciate that, in his 
confirmation hearings, he said that there is nothing innate about 
gender or orientation that makessomeone a better soldier than another. 
I believe the results of the progress made under President Obama will 
show clearly thatthe Nation succeeds when it has the best individuals 
serving to their fullest potential in the position that best matches 
his orher abilities.
  The Secretary of Defense is, of course, a critically important 
position. There are countless difficult choicesGeneral Mattis will have 
to make in steering the Department in a direction that more effectively 
utilizes its budget to respondto today's rapidly evolving challenges. 
And whether it is the persistent, shockingly high rates of sexual 
assault within theArmed Forces and of suicide among young veterans, or 
the need for far more rigorous oversight of Defense resources to 
reducewaste, fraud, and abuse, the next Secretary will need to 
demonstrate that the Department is capable of effectively addressingits 
own internal problems, in addition to defending the Nation.
  In these unsettling times, General Mattis will provide avoice of 
experience and reason to what, by all accounts, looks to be an 
undisciplined, impulsive, and inexperienced Commander inChief. On the 
Appropriations Committee and in other ways, I look

[[Page S352]]

forward to working closely with General Mattis in thisnew role.
  Mr. President, the Senate today considers the nomination of JohnKelly 
to be the Secretary of Homeland Security. A retired marine, General 
Kelly is no stranger to security efforts. Over morethan four decades of 
service in the Marines, General Kelly distinguished himself through 
multiple commands and tours of duty. Heis well respected by elected 
officials, military officers, the Marines under his command, and the 
law enforcement andintelligence communities. I have no reason to doubt 
that he is a man of integrity.
  But General Kelly is nominated to a fardifferent post than those he 
occupied during his distinguished military career. The Department of 
Homeland Security--a civilianagency within our government--is charged 
with a far-reaching mission. From protecting national security to 
implementingimmigration policies, from our emergency response to 
domestic crises, to assisting in the unending fight against drugs in 
ourcommunities that today features opioids and heroin as its most 
prevalent threat, the Department of Homeland Security faceschallenges 
as unique as they are numerous. While I am confident that General Kelly 
is well equipped to exert leadership on manyof these challenges, his 
nomination has also raised concerns.
  As we look ahead to the policies and practices this newadministration 
will seek to implement, we cannot forget the work left unfinished in 
the Obama administration due to theobstruction of congressional 
Republicans. In 2013, after a strong bipartisan vote in the Senate, 
truly comprehensive immigrationreform legislation was sent to the House 
of Representatives, where Republican leaders there refused to even 
bring it to a vote.That legislation addressed a litany of issues facing 
our broken immigration system, from securing our borders to reforming 
visaprograms, from bringing the undocumented out of the shadows to 
reuniting families.
  After House Republicans failed to bringthat bill to a vote, President 
Obama took executive action to expand the Deferred Action for Childhood 
Arrivals, DACA, andestablish the Deferred Action for Parents of 
Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents, DAPA, programs. These actions 
would haveoffered a reprieve for young people and parents so that they 
could remain in the country, with their families, and without fearof 
deportation. It is fundamentally unfair for the new administration to 
revoke a policy designed to bring vulnerable immigrantsout of the 
shadows and then to use information gained from that policy to punish 
them.
  I was disheartened when a Federalcourt issued an injunction 
preventing implementation of these policies. I was more disheartened 
when the Supreme Court wasunable to resolve this court challenge, 
again, due to obstruction from congressional Republicans in the 
consideration ofPresident Obama's nominee to the Supreme Court. Now, 
this new administration is poised to withdraw these executiveorders.
  General Kelly is no stranger to the problems we face along the 
southern border. As the commander of U.S. SouthernCommand, he is 
familiar not only with immigration challenges, but with drug 
trafficking. While I am grateful that he has notsubscribed to the 
singular approach that President Trump has thus far proposed with 
respect to constructing a wall along oursouthern border, I am deeply 
concerned that he has admonished so-called sanctuary cities and has 
testified that accelerating thedeportation of undocumented immigrants 
will provide the solution to our broken immigration system. These views 
are not supportedby the facts, and they are contrary to the work 
undertaken by the Senate just 4 years ago to comprehensively address 
theseproblems. I am also concerned about his tenure as the military 
officer in charge of the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay,given 
reports that he opposed its closure and limited press access to the 
facility.
  Vermonters know that the explosion ofheroin and opioid abuse across 
the country can, in many ways, be attributed to the cross-border 
trafficking of illegal drugs.General Kelly has been a strong defender 
of a U.S. counternarcotics strategy which, in my view and the view of 
many others, hasbeen a costly failure. Since President Reagan's first 
Andean Counter Drug Program, the interrelated problems of 
drugs,corruption, and violence that have plagued countries in South and 
Central America, and spilled over into our own country, havegotten 
progressively worse.
  I do not doubt that General Kelly will be confirmed to this post. 
Knowing that, I do want to workwith him to build on successful policies 
such as preclearance operations, TSA Precheck, and the visa waiver 
program. I lookforward to partnering with him to ensure the 
continuation of efforts to keep our northern border secure, while 
remaining open tothe trade and commerce we conduct with Canada, our 
largest trading partner. I look forward to working with General Kelly 
toensure that the Federal Emergency Management Agency is fully 
supported and able to respond to domestic disasters. And I lookforward 
to working with General Kelly to address vulnerabilities in our cyber 
infrastructure.
  There are many challengesahead. The Department of Homeland Security 
was hastily created in the wake of the September 11 attacks and, in my 
view, hasbecome an unwieldly bureaucracy that suffers from inadequate 
transparency and accountability. This has resulted in adverse,sometimes 
severe consequences for many vulnerable people and their families who 
deserved better from this country. TheDepartment needs significant 
reform in order to effectively confront these challenges, and I urge 
General Kelly to seek theinput of a wide range of experts, as well as 
Congress, in identifying and implementing long overdue reforms. And 
above all, Ihope General Kelly, as the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
will provide a thoughtful and reasoned balance to the extremeproposals 
thus far put forward by President Trump.
  Mr.MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I rise to speak on the nomination of Gen. 
John F. Kelly to be Secretary of Homeland Security. This is 
atremendously important position, especially in these dangerous and 
uncertain times, and it requires a highly qualified nomineewho will be 
able to handle one of the most complex positions here in Washington, 
DC. After his impressive career and nominationhearing, few would 
question that he has the knowledge and the skill to lead the agency.
  He has years of experience workingwith our neighbors in Latin America 
as former commander of U.S. Southern Command, where he saw firsthand 
the drivers of theunaccompanied minors crisis. In his testimony, he 
outlined what he saw as the root causes of migration, including people 
fleeingviolence and seeking asylum within the United States.
  Yet the position requires more than experience, it requires a 
trueunderstanding of the issues and how they affect the men and women 
we are all sworn to serve. It is in this aspect that I havelingering 
concerns.
  Anyone running DHS must be able to prioritize their resources in the 
apprehension, detention, and removalof undocumented immigrants. On 
November 20, 2014, the Department of Homeland Security outlined how 
scarce Federal resourceswould be allocated in enforcing our Nation's 
immigration laws. The memo focused resources on threats to national 
security,threats to national safety, and threats to border security, 
while deemphasizing law-abiding immigrants who have 
integratedthemselves into society. I have been generally supportive of 
this prioritization, as I believe that Federal resources shouldbe spent 
on enforcement actions against serious criminals.
  On day one as Secretary of Homeland Security, General Kelly willhave 
to address this. I hope he will recognize the wisdom of keeping 
families together, protecting children and the DeferredAction for 
Childhood Arrivals DACA Program and focus on deporting serious 
criminals and those who truly pose a threat to ournational security. 
This focus isn't about being liberal or conservative but is a smart and 
humane approach to enforcement of ourimmigration laws.
  General Kelly will have to grapple with the realities of our 
immigration system. As Secretary of HomelandSecurity, General Kelly 
will be tasked with the critical duty of maintaining our southwest 
borders. We have heard

[[Page S353]]

promisesby the President-elect to build a wall that would cost 
taxpayers $25 billion; yet a wall will not secure the border or stop 
theflow of illegal drugs into the country. General Kelly himself noted 
that a wall alone is not enough. I hope that General Kellywill 
recognize that $25 billion is better spent trying to reduce factors 
that drive people to the United States.
  Afterspeaking to General Kelly and listening to his testimony, I am 
cautiously optimistic that this is a nominee who understands theissues 
that will be in front of a Homeland Security Secretary. Ultimately, to 
truly understand the issues, General Kelly willneed an ongoing dialog 
with those such as myself who care deeply about fixing our immigration 
system. As my colleagues areaware, my record of standing up for 
immigrants is clear from years of work on comprehensive immigration 
reform. General Kellyshould hear the stories about those with loved 
ones who have been torn from their homes and sent back to a country 
they nolonger have a connection with. He should talk to those young 
immigrants who are American in every way except for a piece ofpaper who 
have come out of the shadows, registered with the government, and 
applied for DACA and fear being deported under thisnew administration. 
He should hear from parents who have U.S. citizen children and have 
lived in this country for over a decadeand live with the constant 
threat of being separated from their children.
  I will support the nomination of General Kelly tobe the Secretary of 
Homeland Security. However, I plan on using every procedural and 
legislative tool to push back against anydeportation force or policies 
that indiscriminately separate families, targets DREAMers, and generate 
fear in our immigrantcommunities.
  Mr, JOHNSON. Mr. President, I am honored tospeak today in support of 
Gen. John Kelly's nomination to be America's fifth Secretary of the 
Department of HomelandSecurity.
  We would be hard pressed to find an individual who is better suited 
to this challenge, in these periloustimes.
  General Kelly served this Nation for 45 years as a proud marine. He 
commanded the finest among us during three toursin Iraq. He rose to the 
rank of four-star general. And tragically, he became the most senior 
military officer to lose a child incombat when his son, Marine 2nd. Lt. 
Robert Kelly, was killed in November of 2010 in Afghanistan.
  As a four star general anda Gold Star parent, General Kelly has 
served and sacrificed--he knows the price of freedom.
  Perhaps the best way to describethe man we should confirm today is to 
use his own words given in testimony before our committee:
  ``I am humbled to once againbe called to serve, this time with the 
men and women of the Department of Homeland Security.
  As I solemnly swore before Godwhen I entered the Marine Corps, if 
confirmed, I will faithfully support and defend the Constitution of the 
United Statesagainst all enemies foreign and domestic--every second of 
every day.
  I believe in America and the principles upon which ourcountry and way 
of life are guaranteed. I believe in respect, tolerance, and diversity 
of opinion. I have a profound respect forthe rule of law and will 
always strive to uphold it. I have never had a problem speaking truth 
to power, and I firmly believethat those in power deserve full candor 
and my honest assessment and recommendations.
  I love my country, and I will doeverything within my power to 
preserve our liberty, enforce our laws, and protect our citizens. I 
recognize the many challengesfacing the Department of Homeland 
Security--and should I be confirmed--I look forward to partnering with 
you all to protect thehomeland.''
  Colleagues, we are fortunate to have a man of such high caliber who 
is willing to once again answer the call ofduty. I urge all of you to 
support his confirmation today.
  Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, I support the nomination of General 
James Mattis to serve as Secretary ofDefense.
  I voted against enacting an exception to the National Security Act 
for a recently retired general to serve asSecretary of Defense, but 
that vote was in support of our Nation's tradition of civilian 
leadership of the military. Now thatGeneral Mattis's nomination is 
before the Senate on the merits, I believe that he will provide the 
experience and steady handthat will serve this administration well.
  General Mattis has served as a commander of NATO coalition troops. He 
commandedtroops in Iraq and Afghanistan. And he was commander of the 
U.S. Central Command, responsible for American military operationsin 
the Middle East, Northeast Africa, and Central Asia. General Mattis has 
served as a visiting fellow at the Hoover Institutionat Stanford 
University, and Members of both parties who have worked with him have 
testified to his breadth of knowledge andunderstanding of key threats 
and America's role in the world.
  I was heartened to hear in the course of General Mattis'shearing and 
the Senate's consideration of his nomination that he has many views 
that are more reasoned than those expressed byPresident-Elect Trump. 
His testimony made clear that he recognizes the very real challenges 
posed by Russia, and the importanceof reassuring our NATO allies of 
America's commitment to our common defense and mutual obligations. I am 
pleased to hear thatGeneral Mattis opposes the use of torture and has 
no intention to reverse Department of Defense policies on women and the 
LGBTcommunity. I hope that General Mattis's counsel will persuade 
President Trump on these matters.
  I believe that GeneralMattis's knowledge of and familiarity with 
international affairs will be of help to the incoming President and the 
Nation andthus I support his nomination.
  Mr. President, President Trump ran a divisivecampaign that engaged in 
fear-mongering against many immigrants and scapegoated Muslim 
Americans. To the extent that he attemptsto act on that irresponsible 
rhetoric, I will strongly oppose him.
  Thus, I appreciated many of General Kelly's comments inhis 
confirmation hearing before the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs, including his opposition to aregistry based on 
ethnicity or religion and his skepticism of the utility of an expensive 
massive border wall. I hope thatGeneral Kelly will use his voice to 
advocate for those views in the new administration.
  General Kelly has an admirable recordof public service, including 
leadership of the U.S. Southern Command, which is responsible for 
Central America, South America,and the Caribbean. He has a strong 
relationship with current Homeland Security Secretary, Jeh Johnson, 
which will help support asmooth transition of the $40 billion agency 
with its 240,000 employees.
  I am concerned, however, that at General Kelly'sconfirmation hearing, 
Senator Harris repeatedly asked him whether he would honor the 
commitment made to DACA children andDREAMers not to share their 
personal information with Immigration and Customs Enforcement to 
protect them from deportation.General Kelly repeatedly declined to say 
that he would. DACA recipients submitted their personal information to 
the governmenton the assurance from the Department of Homeland Security 
that their information would not be used against them. These 
familiesnow live in fear that the new administration will tear them 
apart.
  I hope that these concerns prove to be unwarranted, and,should 
General Kelly be confirmed, I look forward to working with him to both 
protect our homeland and the values we hold dear.However, his failure 
to provide assurances that he will meet the commitment we have made to 
these individuals who came to theUnited States as children means I 
cannot support his nomination today.
  The ACTINGPRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator from Vermont.


                       Nomination of Mike Pompeo

  Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I want to associate myself with what the 
distinguished Senator fromOregon has said. My concerns--and they will 
be in my full statement about Mr. Pompeo--are his suggestions in the 
past ofsweeping authority for the government to collect bulk 
information on all Americans; that is, every American in this room, 
everyAmerican in this city, and every American in this country. We have 
strong bipartisan legislation that we have worked for yearson, trying 
to

[[Page S354]]

get Republicans and Democrats across the political spectrum to set into 
law what the rules should be. Hisstatements show that he wants to throw 
it all overboard. So I have concerns.
  Mr. President, our intelligence agencies have an enormous task ahead. 
The challenges they face range from state-sponsored information warfare 
to countering violent extremists around the world. Among those who will 
lead these efforts will bethe next Director of the Central Intelligence 
Agency. The importance of the CIA cannot be overstated, and now, 
perhaps more thanever, we need a Director who will manage the agency 
with the full confidence of the American people. This confidence is 
basednot only on a future Director's ability to comprehend security 
challenges, but on his or her ability to safeguard the privacyand civil 
liberties of all Americans and to uphold and advance United States 
leadership in protecting human rights.
  I haveserious concerns with President Trump's nominee to lead the 
CIA. Congressman Pompeo has called for the reestablishment ofthe bulk 
collection of Americans' phone records, and has even argued that the 
intelligence community should combine thatmetadata ``with publicly 
available financial and lifestyle information into a comprehensive, 
searchable database.'' He went onto say that ``[l]egal and bureaucratic 
impediments to surveillance should be removed.'' But Congress outright 
rejected the bulkcollection of Americans' records when it passed the 
USA FREEDOM Act of 2015 on an overwhelming bipartisan basis--the very 
programthat Congressman Pompeo said that he wants to bring back.
  During his testimony last week, Congressman Pompeoattempted to 
diffuse this and other questions about his more alarming positions by 
affirming his appreciation of the supremacyof law. It sounded to me 
like the tried and true confirmation conversion. I appreciate that he 
testified that he understands theresponsibility of a Director to uphold 
the Constitution and the laws passed by Congress. But I remain deeply 
concerned that headvocated for such dangerous measures in the first 
place. And I am concerned that he will push to remove ``legal 
andbureaucratic impediments to surveillance''--just as he said last 
year.
  We face grave threats from around the world, whetherfrom Russia, from 
ISIS, or other adversaries. The director of the CIA must be trusted by 
all Americans to protect us from thesethreats, but also to protect our 
Nation's core values. I don't question Congressman Pompeo's loyalty to 
our Nation. I doquestion his stated beliefs that immediate security 
concerns can be used as a justification for eroding the fundamental 
rightsof Americans. For these reasons, I cannot support Congressman 
Pompeo's nomination.
  The ACTINGPRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator from North Carolina.
  Mr. BURR. Mr. President, I ask unanimousconsent for 2 additional 
minutes on each side.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Is there objection?
  Without objection,it is so ordered.
  Mr. BURR. Mr. President, I would like to respond to the statement of 
the Senatorfrom Oregon. As chairman of the Intelligence Committee, let 
me just tell Members that Congressman Pompeo has made himselfavailable 
to every Member on the Committee for private meetings in their office. 
For everyone who would take a meeting, he metwith them.
  He came before the committee in open session and in closed session. 
In open session, he stayed for as long asMembers had questions, and all 
questions were answered. Congressman Pompeo received from the committee 
over 150--may havebeen over 200--questions for the record. Today all 
questions are answered.
  I can't address whether there was ever a CIADirector who was 
confirmed on inauguration day, but I can't think of a time where the 
country has been more challenged withthreats around the world and at 
home than we are right now. We carried out military acts last night and 
the night before. Wehave just gotten through with one of the highest 
security events in the history of this country in Washington, DC.
  Whyaren't we taking up Representative Pompeo today? It is not because 
there is disagreement, it is not because we haven't hadan opportunity 
to ask enough questions or talk to him face-to-face and get answers. It 
is because some people don't want to voteon it today. They want to wait 
until Monday.
  I am willing to debate this as long as it needs to be debated. I 
don't want tocut off anybody's debate, but I think we owe it to the 
country to have a vote today. That can be in an hour, it can be in 
5hours, but I think we ought to provide this President with a CIA 
Director who is in charge.
  Mr.DURBIN. Will the Senator yield for a question?
  Mr. BURR. I will be happy to yield.
  Mr. McCAIN. I object. It is time for the vote.
  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President,there were 2 minutes extended to each side, 
if I am not mistaken.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator cannotobject. There is 
2 minutes on both sides.
  Mr. BURR. Mr. President, let me conclude and then theSenator can 
claim his own time.
  We ought to do this. We ought to do it for the country, not for 
ourselves. It is not aboutus. This is about doing something for the 
country. An Acting Director of the CIA is just not sufficient, whether 
it is for a dayor whether it is for a week. Right now they need 
leadership that is permanent. They need to know tomorrow who is heading 
thatAgency. I would urge my colleagues, let's confirm him today. We 
have had enough time to ask every question possible, and now isthe time 
to vote on confirmation.
  I yield the floor.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator from Illinois.
  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I only want to ask my friend from North 
Carolina, the chairman of thecommittee, two questions.
  Is it traditional for the Senate Intelligence Committee that you 
chair to report out a nomineelike Congressman Pompeo, and have you 
reported him out of your committee to the floor?
  Mr.BURR. The Senator's question is a very good one.
  It is normal for us to report out. We thought we had a deal with 
theDemocratic leader. That is why we didn't discharge him. That is why 
we didn't have a business meeting this week. I regret that Ididn't 
schedule that, but it certainly could have been, and I will not make 
that mistake again.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT protempore. All time for the majority has 
expired.
  Who yields time?
  The Senator from Michigan.
  Mr. DURBIN. The Democratic side yields back all time.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. All time has expired.


                       Vote on Mattis Nomination

  The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to theMattis 
nomination?
  Mr. McCAIN. I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The ACTING PRESIDENT protempore. Is there a sufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  Thesenior assistant legislative clerk called the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senator is necessarily absent: the Senator 
from Alabama (Mr. Sessions).
  ThePRESIDING OFFICER (Ms. Collins). Are there any other Senators in 
the Chamber desiring to vote?
  The result wasannounced--yeas 98, nays 1, as follows:

                       [Rollcall Vote No. 29 Ex.]

                                YEAS--98

     Alexander
     Baldwin
     Barrasso
     Bennet
     Blumenthal
     Blunt
     Booker
     Boozman
     Brown
     Burr
     Cantwell
     Capito
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Coons
     Corker
     Cornyn
     Cortez Masto
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Donnelly
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Feinstein
     Fischer
     Flake
     Franken
     Gardner
     Graham
     Grassley
     Harris
     Hassan
     Hatch
     Heinrich
     Heitkamp
     Heller
     Hirono
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Kaine
     Kennedy
     King
     Klobuchar
     Lankford
     Leahy
     Lee
     Manchin
     Markey
     McCain
     McCaskill
     McConnell
     Menendez
     Merkley
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Murphy
     Murray
     Nelson
     Paul
     Perdue
     Peters
     Portman

[[Page S355]]


     Reed
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Sanders
     Sasse
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Scott
     Shaheen
     Shelby
     Stabenow
     Sullivan
     Tester
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warner
     Warren
     Whitehouse
     Wicker
     Wyden
     Young

                                NAYS--1

       
     Gillibrand
       

                             NOT VOTING--1

       
     Sessions
       
  The nomination was confirmed.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority leader is recognized.
  Mr.McCONNELL. Madam President, I think under the circumstances the 
Democratic leader and I have come up with a solution that Ithink at 
least moves the ball in the right direction. First, I want to implore 
our colleagues on the other side to give us avote on Pompeo today.


           Unanimous Consent Request--Presidential Nomination

  Therefore,following disposition of the Kelly nomination, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Intelligence Committee be discharged and 
theSenate proceed to the consideration of the following nomination 
received today: Mike Pompeo to be Director of the CentralIntelligence 
Agency. I ask that the nomination be confirmed, the motion to 
reconsider be considered made and laid upon thetable, and the President 
be notified of the Senate's action.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection to the request?
  Mr. WYDEN. I object, Madam President.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection is heard.
  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, it is pretty obvious the Senator from 
Oregon is notinterested in approving this CIA nomination today. I would 
remind everyone the previous Director is gone. The Deputy, the No. 
2person, is gone. I don't think it is a great idea for Senate Democrats 
to be holding this vacant over the weekend.


          Unanimous Consent Agreement--Presidential Nomination

  Mr. President, given what we haveheard, following disposition of the 
Kelly nomination, I ask unanimous consent that the Intelligence 
Committee be discharged andthe Senate vote on the motion to proceed to 
the consideration of the following nomination received today: Mike 
Pompeo to beDirector of the Central Intelligence Agency--the motion to 
proceed. I further ask consent that following leader remarks onMonday, 
January 23, there be 6 hours of debate on the nomination, equally 
divided in the usual form, and that following the useor yielding back 
of time, the Senate vote on the nomination with no intervening action 
or debate; that if confirmed, the motionto reconsider be considered 
made and laid upon the table; that the President be immediately 
notified of the Senate's action;that no further motions be in order; 
and that any statements relating to the nomination be printed in the 
Record.
  ThePRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection to the unanimous consent 
request?
  Mr. WYDEN. Reserving theright to object.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Oregon.
  Mr. WYDEN. Madam President,this would ensure that there would be a 
debate about the CIA and its future Director in the light of day. I am 
not going toobject, and I withdraw my reservation.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The question nowoccurs on the Kelly nomination.
  Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, I ask for 1 minute on thenomination.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
  Without objection, it is so ordered.
  The Senator from Arizonais recognized.
  Mr. McCAIN. Madam President, I know it is unnecessary, but I urge an 
``aye''vote on General Kelly. He is experienced. He is talented. He 
understands borders. He understands the challenges we face for 
ournational security throughout the world. I strongly urge an ``aye'' 
vote for General Kelly.


                        Vote on Kelly Nomination

  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The question is, Will the Senate advise and 
consent to the Kellynomination?
  Mr. McCAIN. I ask for the yeas and nays.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there asufficient second?
  There appears to be a sufficient second.
  The clerk will call the roll.
  The legislative clerkcalled the roll.
  Mr. CORNYN. The following Senatoris necessarily absent: the Senator 
from Alabama (Mr. Sessions).
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Rounds). Are there anyother Senators in 
the Chamber desiring to vote?
  The result was announced--yeas 88, nays 11, as follows:

                       [Rollcall Vote No. 30 Ex.]

                                YEAS--88

     Alexander
     Baldwin
     Barrasso
     Bennet
     Blunt
     Boozman
     Brown
     Burr
     Cantwell
     Capito
     Cardin
     Carper
     Casey
     Cassidy
     Cochran
     Collins
     Coons
     Corker
     Cornyn
     Cotton
     Crapo
     Cruz
     Daines
     Donnelly
     Duckworth
     Durbin
     Enzi
     Ernst
     Feinstein
     Fischer
     Flake
     Franken
     Gardner
     Graham
     Grassley
     Hassan
     Hatch
     Heitkamp
     Heller
     Hirono
     Hoeven
     Inhofe
     Isakson
     Johnson
     Kaine
     Kennedy
     King
     Klobuchar
     Lankford
     Leahy
     Lee
     Manchin
     Markey
     McCain
     McCaskill
     McConnell
     Menendez
     Moran
     Murkowski
     Murphy
     Murray
     Nelson
     Paul
     Perdue
     Peters
     Portman
     Reed
     Risch
     Roberts
     Rounds
     Rubio
     Sanders
     Sasse
     Schatz
     Schumer
     Scott
     Shaheen
     Shelby
     Stabenow
     Sullivan
     Tester
     Thune
     Tillis
     Toomey
     Warner
     Whitehouse
     Wicker
     Young
       
       

                                NAYS--11

     Blumenthal
     Booker
     Cortez Masto
     Gillibrand
     Harris
     Heinrich
     Merkley
     Udall
     Van Hollen
     Warren
     Wyden
       

                             NOT VOTING--1

       
     Sessions
       
  The nomination was confirmed.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. With respectto the Mattis and Kelly 
nominations, under the previous order, the motions to reconsider are 
considered made and laid upon thetable.
  The President will be immediately notified of the Senate's action.

                          ____________________



