

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2653-H2667]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        WEATHER RESEARCH AND FORECASTING INNOVATION ACT OF 2017

  Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and 
concur in the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 353) to improve the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's weather research 
through a focused program of investment on affordable and attainable 
advances in observational, computing, and modeling capabilities to 
support substantial improvement in weather forecasting and prediction 
of high impact weather events, to expand commercial opportunities for 
the provision of weather data, and for other purposes.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the Senate amendment is as follows:
  Senate amendment:

       Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the 
     following:

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

       (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Weather 
     Research and Forecasting Innovation Act of 2017''.
       (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act 
     is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.

  TITLE I--UNITED STATES WEATHER RESEARCH AND FORECASTING IMPROVEMENT

Sec. 101. Public safety priority.
Sec. 102. Weather research and forecasting innovation.
Sec. 103. Tornado warning improvement and extension program.
Sec. 104. Hurricane forecast improvement program.
Sec. 105. Weather research and development planning.
Sec. 106. Observing system planning.
Sec. 107. Observing system simulation experiments.
Sec. 108. Annual report on computing resources prioritization.
Sec. 109. United States Weather Research program.
Sec. 110. Authorization of appropriations.

       TITLE II--SUBSEASONAL AND SEASONAL FORECASTING INNOVATION

Sec. 201. Improving subseasonal and seasonal forecasts.

            TITLE III--WEATHER SATELLITE AND DATA INNOVATION

Sec. 301. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration satellite and 
              data management.
Sec. 302. Commercial weather data.
Sec. 303. Unnecessary duplication.

                 TITLE IV--FEDERAL WEATHER COORDINATION

Sec. 401. Environmental Information Services Working Group.
Sec. 402. Interagency weather research and forecast innovation 
              coordination.
Sec. 403. Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research and National 
              Weather Service exchange program.
Sec. 404. Visiting fellows at National Weather Service.
Sec. 405. Warning coordination meteorologists at weather forecast 
              offices of National Weather Service.
Sec. 406. Improving National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
              communication of hazardous weather and water events.
Sec. 407. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Weather Ready 
              All Hazards Award Program.
Sec. 408. Department of Defense weather forecasting activities.
Sec. 409. National Weather Service; operations and workforce analysis.
Sec. 410. Report on contract positions at National Weather Service.
Sec. 411. Weather impacts to communities and infrastructure.
Sec. 412. Weather enterprise outreach.
Sec. 413. Hurricane hunter aircraft.
Sec. 414. Study on gaps in NEXRAD coverage and recommendations to 
              address such gaps.

     TITLE V--TSUNAMI WARNING, EDUCATION, AND RESEARCH ACT OF 2017

Sec. 501. Short title.
Sec. 502. References to the Tsunami Warning and Education Act.
Sec. 503. Expansion of purposes of Tsunami Warning and Education Act.
Sec. 504. Modification of tsunami forecasting and warning program.
Sec. 505. Modification of national tsunami hazard mitigation program.
Sec. 506. Modification of tsunami research program.
Sec. 507. Global tsunami warning and mitigation network.
Sec. 508. Tsunami science and technology advisory panel.
Sec. 509. Reports.
Sec. 510. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 511. Outreach responsibilities.
Sec. 512. Repeal of duplicate provisions of law.

     SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

       In this Act:
       (1) Seasonal.--The term ``seasonal'' means the time range 
     between 3 months and 2 years.
       (2) State.--The term ``State'' means a State, a territory, 
     or possession of the United States, including a Commonwealth, 
     or the District of Columbia.
       (3) Subseasonal.--The term ``subseasonal'' means the time 
     range between 2 weeks and 3 months.
       (4) Under secretary.--The term ``Under Secretary'' means 
     the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere.
       (5) Weather industry and weather enterprise.--The terms 
     ``weather industry'' and ``weather enterprise'' are 
     interchangeable in this Act, and include individuals and 
     organizations from public, private, and academic sectors that 
     contribute to the research, development, and production of 
     weather forecast products, and primary consumers of these 
     weather forecast products.

  TITLE I--UNITED STATES WEATHER RESEARCH AND FORECASTING IMPROVEMENT

     SEC. 101. PUBLIC SAFETY PRIORITY.

       In conducting research, the Under Secretary shall 
     prioritize improving weather data, modeling, computing, 
     forecasting, and warnings for the protection of life and 
     property and for the enhancement of the national economy.

[[Page H2654]]

  


     SEC. 102. WEATHER RESEARCH AND FORECASTING INNOVATION.

       (a) Program.--The Assistant Administrator for the Office of 
     Oceanic and Atmospheric Research shall conduct a program to 
     develop improved understanding of and forecast capabilities 
     for atmospheric events and their impacts, placing priority on 
     developing more accurate, timely, and effective warnings and 
     forecasts of high impact weather events that endanger life 
     and property.
       (b) Program Elements.--The program described in subsection 
     (a) shall focus on the following activities:
       (1) Improving the fundamental understanding of weather 
     consistent with section 101, including the boundary layer and 
     other processes affecting high impact weather events.
       (2) Improving the understanding of how the public receives, 
     interprets, and responds to warnings and forecasts of high 
     impact weather events that endanger life and property.
       (3) Research and development, and transfer of knowledge, 
     technologies, and applications to the National Weather 
     Service and other appropriate agencies and entities, 
     including the United States weather industry and academic 
     partners, related to--
       (A) advanced radar, radar networking technologies, and 
     other ground-based technologies, including those emphasizing 
     rapid, fine-scale sensing of the boundary layer and lower 
     troposphere, and the use of innovative, dual-polarization, 
     phased-array technologies;
       (B) aerial weather observing systems;
       (C) high performance computing and information technology 
     and wireless communication networks;
       (D) advanced numerical weather prediction systems and 
     forecasting tools and techniques that improve the forecasting 
     of timing, track, intensity, and severity of high impact 
     weather, including through--
       (i) the development of more effective mesoscale models;
       (ii) more effective use of existing, and the development of 
     new, regional and national cloud-resolving models;
       (iii) enhanced global weather models; and
       (iv) integrated assessment models;
       (E) quantitative assessment tools for measuring the impact 
     and value of data and observing systems, including Observing 
     System Simulation Experiments (as described in section 107), 
     Observing System Experiments, and Analyses of Alternatives;
       (F) atmospheric chemistry and interactions essential to 
     accurately characterizing atmospheric composition and 
     predicting meteorological processes, including cloud 
     microphysical, precipitation, and atmospheric electrification 
     processes, to more effectively understand their role in 
     severe weather; and
       (G) additional sources of weather data and information, 
     including commercial observing systems.
       (4) A technology transfer initiative, carried out jointly 
     and in coordination with the Director of the National Weather 
     Service, and in cooperation with the United States weather 
     industry and academic partners, to ensure continuous 
     development and transition of the latest scientific and 
     technological advances into operations of the National 
     Weather Service and to establish a process to sunset outdated 
     and expensive operational methods and tools to enable cost-
     effective transfer of new methods and tools into operations.
       (c) Extramural Research.--
       (1) In general.--In carrying out the program under this 
     section, the Assistant Administrator for Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Research shall collaborate with and support the 
     non-Federal weather research community, which includes 
     institutions of higher education, private entities, and 
     nongovernmental organizations, by making funds available 
     through competitive grants, contracts, and cooperative 
     agreements.
       (2) Sense of congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
     not less than 30 percent of the funds for weather research 
     and development at the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric 
     Research should be made available for the purpose described 
     in paragraph (1).
       (d) Annual Report.--Each year, concurrent with the annual 
     budget request submitted by the President to Congress under 
     section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, for the 
     National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the Under 
     Secretary shall submit to Congress a description of current 
     and planned activities under this section.

     SEC. 103. TORNADO WARNING IMPROVEMENT AND EXTENSION PROGRAM.

       (a) In General.--The Under Secretary, in collaboration with 
     the United States weather industry and academic partners, 
     shall establish a tornado warning improvement and extension 
     program.
       (b) Goal.--The goal of such program shall be to reduce the 
     loss of life and economic losses from tornadoes through the 
     development and extension of accurate, effective, and timely 
     tornado forecasts, predictions, and warnings, including the 
     prediction of tornadoes beyond 1 hour in advance.
       (c) Program Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
     of the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Administrator for 
     Oceanic and Atmospheric Research, in coordination with the 
     Director of the National Weather Service, shall develop a 
     program plan that details the specific research, development, 
     and technology transfer activities, as well as corresponding 
     resources and timelines, necessary to achieve the program 
     goal.
       (d) Annual Budget for Plan Submittal.--Following completion 
     of the plan, the Under Secretary, acting through the 
     Assistant Administrator for Oceanic and Atmospheric Research 
     and in coordination with the Director of the National Weather 
     Service, shall, not less frequently than once each year, 
     submit to Congress a proposed budget corresponding with the 
     activities identified in the plan.

     SEC. 104. HURRICANE FORECAST IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.

       (a) In General.--The Under Secretary, in collaboration with 
     the United States weather industry and such academic entities 
     as the Administrator considers appropriate, shall maintain a 
     project to improve hurricane forecasting.
       (b) Goal.--The goal of the project maintained under 
     subsection (a) shall be to develop and extend accurate 
     hurricane forecasts and warnings in order to reduce loss of 
     life, injury, and damage to the economy, with a focus on--
       (1) improving the prediction of rapid intensification and 
     track of hurricanes;
       (2) improving the forecast and communication of storm 
     surges from hurricanes; and
       (3) incorporating risk communication research to create 
     more effective watch and warning products.
       (c) Project Plan.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary, acting 
     through the Assistant Administrator for Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Research and in consultation with the Director of 
     the National Weather Service, shall develop a plan for the 
     project maintained under subsection (a) that details the 
     specific research, development, and technology transfer 
     activities, as well as corresponding resources and timelines, 
     necessary to achieve the goal set forth in subsection (b).

     SEC. 105. WEATHER RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PLANNING.

       Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, and not less frequently than once each year 
     thereafter, the Under Secretary, acting through the Assistant 
     Administrator for Oceanic and Atmospheric Research and in 
     coordination with the Director of the National Weather 
     Service and the Assistant Administrator for Satellite and 
     Information Services, shall issue a research and development 
     and research to operations plan to restore and maintain 
     United States leadership in numerical weather prediction and 
     forecasting that--
       (1) describes the forecasting skill and technology goals, 
     objectives, and progress of the National Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration in carrying out the program 
     conducted under section 102;
       (2) identifies and prioritizes specific research and 
     development activities, and performance metrics, weighted to 
     meet the operational weather mission of the National Weather 
     Service to achieve a weather-ready Nation;
       (3) describes how the program will collaborate with 
     stakeholders, including the United States weather industry 
     and academic partners; and
       (4) identifies, through consultation with the National 
     Science Foundation, the United States weather industry, and 
     academic partners, research necessary to enhance the 
     integration of social science knowledge into weather forecast 
     and warning processes, including to improve the communication 
     of threat information necessary to enable improved severe 
     weather planning and decisionmaking on the part of 
     individuals and communities.

     SEC. 106. OBSERVING SYSTEM PLANNING.

       The Under Secretary shall--
       (1) develop and maintain a prioritized list of observation 
     data requirements necessary to ensure weather forecasting 
     capabilities to protect life and property to the maximum 
     extent practicable;
       (2) consistent with section 107, utilize Observing System 
     Simulation Experiments, Observing System Experiments, 
     Analyses of Alternatives, and other appropriate assessment 
     tools to ensure continuous systemic evaluations of the 
     observing systems, data, and information needed to meet the 
     requirements of paragraph (1), including options to maximize 
     observational capabilities and their cost-effectiveness;
       (3) identify current and potential future data gaps in 
     observing capabilities related to the requirements listed 
     under paragraph (1); and
       (4) determine a range of options to address gaps identified 
     under paragraph (3).

     SEC. 107. OBSERVING SYSTEM SIMULATION EXPERIMENTS.

       (a) In General.--In support of the requirements of section 
     106, the Assistant Administrator for Oceanic and Atmospheric 
     Research shall undertake Observing System Simulation 
     Experiments, or such other quantitative assessments as the 
     Assistant Administrator considers appropriate, to 
     quantitatively assess the relative value and benefits of 
     observing capabilities and systems. Technical and scientific 
     Observing System Simulation Experiment evaluations--
       (1) may include assessments of the impact of observing 
     capabilities on--
       (A) global weather prediction;
       (B) hurricane track and intensity forecasting;
       (C) tornado warning lead times and accuracy;
       (D) prediction of mid-latitude severe local storm 
     outbreaks; and
       (E) prediction of storms that have the potential to cause 
     extreme precipitation and flooding lasting from 6 hours to 1 
     week; and
       (2) shall be conducted in cooperation with other 
     appropriate entities within the National Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration, other Federal agencies, the 
     United States weather industry, and academic partners to 
     ensure the technical and scientific merit of results from 
     Observing System Simulation Experiments or other appropriate 
     quantitative assessment methodologies.
       (b) Requirements.--Observing System Simulation Experiments 
     shall quantitatively--
       (1) determine the potential impact of proposed space-based, 
     suborbital, and in situ observing systems on analyses and 
     forecasts, including potential impacts on extreme weather 
     events across all parts of the Nation;

[[Page H2655]]

       (2) evaluate and compare observing system design options; 
     and
       (3) assess the relative capabilities and costs of various 
     observing systems and combinations of observing systems in 
     providing data necessary to protect life and property.
       (c) Implementation.--Observing System Simulation 
     Experiments--
       (1) shall be conducted prior to the acquisition of major 
     Government-owned or Government-leased operational observing 
     systems, including polar-orbiting and geostationary satellite 
     systems, with a lifecycle cost of more than $500,000,000; and
       (2) shall be conducted prior to the purchase of any major 
     new commercially provided data with a lifecycle cost of more 
     than $500,000,000.
       (d) Priority Observing System Simulation Experiments.--
       (1) Global navigation satellite system radio occultation.--
     Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Assistant Administrator for Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Research shall complete an Observing System 
     Simulation Experiment to assess the value of data from Global 
     Navigation Satellite System Radio Occultation.
       (2) Geostationary hyperspectral sounder global 
     constellation.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Assistant Administrator for 
     Oceanic and Atmospheric Research shall complete an Observing 
     System Simulation Experiment to assess the value of data from 
     a geostationary hyperspectral sounder global constellation.
       (e) Results.--Upon completion of all Observing System 
     Simulation Experiments, the Assistant Administrator shall 
     make available to the public the results an assessment of 
     related private and public sector weather data sourcing 
     options, including their availability, affordability, and 
     cost-effectiveness. Such assessments shall be developed in 
     accordance with section 50503 of title 51, United States 
     Code.

     SEC. 108. ANNUAL REPORT ON COMPUTING RESOURCES 
                   PRIORITIZATION.

       Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act and not less frequently than once each year 
     thereafter, the Under Secretary, acting through the Chief 
     Information Officer of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
     Administration and in coordination with the Assistant 
     Administrator for Oceanic and Atmospheric Research and the 
     Director of the National Weather Service, shall produce and 
     make publicly available a report that explains how the Under 
     Secretary intends--
       (1) to continually support upgrades to pursue the fastest, 
     most powerful, and cost-effective high performance computing 
     technologies in support of its weather prediction mission;
       (2) to ensure a balance between the research to operations 
     requirements to develop the next generation of regional and 
     global models as well as highly reliable operational models;
       (3) to take advantage of advanced development concepts to, 
     as appropriate, make next generation weather prediction 
     models available in beta-test mode to operational 
     forecasters, the United States weather industry, and partners 
     in academic and Government research; and
       (4) to use existing computing resources to improve advanced 
     research and operational weather prediction.

     SEC. 109. UNITED STATES WEATHER RESEARCH PROGRAM.

       Section 108 of the Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
     Authorization Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-567; 15 U.S.C. 313 
     note) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)--
       (A) in paragraph (3), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
     semicolon;
       (B) in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end and 
     inserting a semicolon; and
       (C) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following:
       ``(5) submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Science, 
     Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives, not 
     less frequently than once each year, a report, including--
       ``(A) a list of ongoing research projects;
       ``(B) project goals and a point of contact for each 
     project;
       ``(C) the five projects related to weather observations, 
     short-term weather, or subseasonal forecasts within Office of 
     Oceanic and Atmospheric Research that are closest to 
     operationalization;
       ``(D) for each project referred to in subparagraph (C)--
       ``(i) the potential benefit;
       ``(ii) any barrier to operationalization; and
       ``(iii) the plan for operationalization, including which 
     line office will financially support the project and how much 
     the line office intends to spend;
       ``(6) establish teams with staff from the Office of Oceanic 
     and Atmospheric Research and the National Weather Service to 
     oversee the operationalization of research products developed 
     by the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research;
       ``(7) develop mechanisms for research priorities of the 
     Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research to be informed by 
     the relevant line offices within the National Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration, the relevant user community, and 
     the weather enterprise;
       ``(8) develop an internal mechanism to track the progress 
     of each research project within the Office of Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Research and mechanisms to terminate a project 
     that is not adequately progressing;
       ``(9) develop and implement a system to track whether 
     extramural research grant goals were accomplished;
       ``(10) provide facilities for products developed by the 
     Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research to be tested in 
     operational simulations, such as test beds; and
       ``(11) encourage academic collaboration with the Office of 
     Oceanic and Atmospheric Research and the National Weather 
     Service by facilitating visiting scholars.'';
       (2) in subsection (b), in the matter preceding paragraph 
     (1), by striking ``Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the'' and inserting ``The''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(c) Subseasonal Defined.--In this section, the term 
     `subseasonal' means the time range between 2 weeks and 3 
     months.''.

     SEC. 110. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

       (a) Fiscal Years 2017 and 2018.--For each of fiscal years 
     2017 and 2018, there are authorized to be appropriated to 
     Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research--
       (1) $111,516,000 to carry out this title, of which--
       (A) $85,758,000 is authorized for weather laboratories and 
     cooperative institutes; and
       (B) $25,758,000 is authorized for weather and air chemistry 
     research programs; and
       (2) an additional amount of $20,000,000 for the joint 
     technology transfer initiative described in section 
     102(b)(4).
       (b) Limitation.--No additional funds are authorized to 
     carry out this title and the amendments made by this title.

       TITLE II--SUBSEASONAL AND SEASONAL FORECASTING INNOVATION

     SEC. 201. IMPROVING SUBSEASONAL AND SEASONAL FORECASTS.

       Section 1762 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (Public Law 
     99-198; 15 U.S.C. 313 note) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``(a)'' and inserting 
     ``(a) Findings.--'';
       (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``(b)'' and inserting 
     ``(b) Policy.--''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(c) Functions.--The Under Secretary, acting through the 
     Director of the National Weather Service and the heads of 
     such other programs of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
     Administration as the Under Secretary considers appropriate, 
     shall--
       ``(1) collect and utilize information in order to make 
     usable, reliable, and timely foundational forecasts of 
     subseasonal and seasonal temperature and precipitation;
       ``(2) leverage existing research and models from the 
     weather enterprise to improve the forecasts under paragraph 
     (1);
       ``(3) determine and provide information on how the 
     forecasted conditions under paragraph (1) may impact--
       ``(A) the number and severity of droughts, fires, 
     tornadoes, hurricanes, floods, heat waves, coastal 
     inundation, winter storms, high impact weather, or other 
     relevant natural disasters;
       ``(B) snowpack; and
       ``(C) sea ice conditions; and
       ``(4) develop an Internet clearinghouse to provide the 
     forecasts under paragraph (1) and the information under 
     paragraphs (1) and (3) on both national and regional levels.
       ``(d) Communication.--The Director of the National Weather 
     Service shall provide the forecasts under paragraph (1) of 
     subsection (c) and the information on their impacts under 
     paragraph (3) of such subsection to the public, including 
     public and private entities engaged in planning and 
     preparedness, such as National Weather Service Core partners 
     at the Federal, regional, State, tribal, and local levels of 
     government.
       ``(e) Cooperation.--The Under Secretary shall build upon 
     existing forecasting and assessment programs and 
     partnerships, including--
       ``(1) by designating research and monitoring activities 
     related to subseasonal and seasonal forecasts as a priority 
     in one or more solicitations of the Cooperative Institutes of 
     the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research;
       ``(2) by contributing to the interagency Earth System 
     Prediction Capability; and
       ``(3) by consulting with the Secretary of Defense and the 
     Secretary of Homeland Security to determine the highest 
     priority subseasonal and seasonal forecast needs to enhance 
     national security.
       ``(f) Forecast Communication Coordinators.--
       ``(1) In general.--The Under Secretary shall foster 
     effective communication, understanding, and use of the 
     forecasts by the intended users of the information described 
     in subsection (d). This may include assistance to States for 
     forecast communication coordinators to enable local 
     interpretation and planning based on the information.
       ``(2) Requirements.--For each State that requests 
     assistance under this subsection, the Under Secretary may--
       ``(A) provide funds to support an individual in that 
     State--
       ``(i) to serve as a liaison among the National Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration, other Federal departments and 
     agencies, the weather enterprise, the State, and relevant 
     interests within that State; and
       ``(ii) to receive the forecasts and information under 
     subsection (c) and disseminate the forecasts and information 
     throughout the State, including to county and tribal 
     governments; and
       ``(B) require matching funds of at least 50 percent, from 
     the State, a university, a nongovernmental organization, a 
     trade association, or the private sector.
       ``(3) Limitation.--Assistance to an individual State under 
     this subsection shall not exceed $100,000 in a fiscal year.
       ``(g) Cooperation From Other Federal Agencies.--Each 
     Federal department and agency shall cooperate as appropriate 
     with the Under Secretary in carrying out this section.
       ``(h) Reports.--

[[Page H2656]]

       ``(1) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the date 
     of the enactment of the Weather Research and Forecasting 
     Innovation Act of 2017, the Under Secretary shall submit to 
     the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
     Senate and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of 
     the House of Representatives a report, including--
       ``(A) an analysis of the how information from the National 
     Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration on subseasonal and 
     seasonal forecasts, as provided under subsection (c), is 
     utilized in public planning and preparedness;
       ``(B) specific plans and goals for the continued 
     development of the subseasonal and seasonal forecasts and 
     related products described in subsection (c); and
       ``(C) an identification of research, monitoring, observing, 
     and forecasting requirements to meet the goals described in 
     subparagraph (B).
       ``(2) Consultation.--In developing the report under 
     paragraph (1), the Under Secretary shall consult with 
     relevant Federal, regional, State, tribal, and local 
     government agencies, research institutions, and the private 
     sector.
       ``(i) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) Foundational forecast.--The term `foundational 
     forecast' means basic weather observation and forecast data, 
     largely in raw form, before further processing is applied.
       ``(2) National weather service core partners.--The term 
     `National Weather Service core partners' means government and 
     nongovernment entities which are directly involved in the 
     preparation or dissemination of, or discussions involving, 
     hazardous weather or other emergency information put out by 
     the National Weather Service.
       ``(3) Seasonal.--The term `seasonal' means the time range 
     between 3 months and 2 years.
       ``(4) State.--The term `State' means a State, a territory, 
     or possession of the United States, including a Commonwealth, 
     or the District of Columbia.
       ``(5) Subseasonal.--The term `subseasonal' means the time 
     range between 2 weeks and 3 months.
       ``(6) Under secretary.--The term `Under Secretary' means 
     the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere.
       ``(7) Weather industry and weather enterprise.--The terms 
     `weather industry' and `weather enterprise' are 
     interchangeable in this section and include individuals and 
     organizations from public, private, and academic sectors that 
     contribute to the research, development, and production of 
     weather forecast products, and primary consumers of these 
     weather forecast products.
       ``(j) Authorization of Appropriations.--For each of fiscal 
     years 2017 and 2018, there are authorized out of funds 
     appropriated to the National Weather Service, $26,500,000 to 
     carry out the activities of this section.''.

            TITLE III--WEATHER SATELLITE AND DATA INNOVATION

     SEC. 301. NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION 
                   SATELLITE AND DATA MANAGEMENT.

       (a) Short-Term Management of Environmental Observations.--
       (1) Microsatellite constellations.--
       (A) In general.--The Under Secretary shall complete and 
     operationalize the Constellation Observing System for 
     Meteorology, Ionosphere, and Climate-1 and Climate-2 (COSMIC) 
     in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this 
     Act--
       (i) by deploying constellations of microsatellites in both 
     the equatorial and polar orbits;
       (ii) by integrating the resulting data and research into 
     all national operational and research weather forecast 
     models; and
       (iii) by ensuring that the resulting data of National 
     Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's COSMIC-1 and COSMIC-
     2 programs are free and open to all communities.
       (B) Annual reports.--Not less frequently than once each 
     year until the Under Secretary has completed and 
     operationalized the program described in subparagraph (A) 
     pursuant to such subparagraph, the Under Secretary shall 
     submit to Congress a report on the status of the efforts of 
     the Under Secretary to carry out such subparagraph.
       (2) Integration of ocean and coastal data from the 
     integrated ocean observing system.--In National Weather 
     Service Regions where the Director of the National Weather 
     Service determines that ocean and coastal data would improve 
     forecasts, the Director, in consultation with the Assistant 
     Administrator for Oceanic and Atmospheric Research and the 
     Assistant Administrator of the National Ocean Service, 
     shall--
       (A) integrate additional coastal and ocean observations, 
     and other data and research, from the Integrated Ocean 
     Observing System (IOOS) into regional weather forecasts to 
     improve weather forecasts and forecasting decision support 
     systems; and
       (B) support the development of real-time data sharing 
     products and forecast products in collaboration with the 
     regional associations of such system, including contributions 
     from the private sector, academia, and research institutions 
     to ensure timely and accurate use of ocean and coastal data 
     in regional forecasts.
       (3) Existing monitoring and observation-capability.--The 
     Under Secretary shall identify degradation of existing 
     monitoring and observation capabilities that could lead to a 
     reduction in forecast quality.
       (4) Specifications for new satellite systems or data 
     determined by operational needs.--In developing 
     specifications for any satellite systems or data to follow 
     the Joint Polar Satellite System, Geostationary Operational 
     Environmental Satellites, and any other satellites, in effect 
     on the day before the date of enactment of this Act, the 
     Under Secretary shall ensure the specifications are 
     determined to the extent practicable by the recommendations 
     of the reports under subsection (b) of this section.
       (b) Independent Study on Future of National Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration Satellite Systems and Data.--
       (1) Agreement.--
       (A) In general.--The Under Secretary shall seek to enter 
     into an agreement with the National Academy of Sciences to 
     perform the services covered by this subsection.
       (B) Timing.--The Under Secretary shall seek to enter into 
     the agreement described in subparagraph (A) before September 
     30, 2018.
       (2) Study.--
       (A) In general.--Under an agreement between the Under 
     Secretary and the National Academy of Sciences under this 
     subsection, the National Academy of Sciences shall conduct a 
     study on matters concerning future satellite data needs.
       (B) Elements.--In conducting the study under subparagraph 
     (A), the National Academy of Sciences shall--
       (i) develop recommendations on how to make the data 
     portfolio of the Administration more robust and cost-
     effective;
       (ii) assess the costs and benefits of moving toward a 
     constellation of many small satellites, standardizing 
     satellite bus design, relying more on the purchasing of data, 
     or acquiring data from other sources or methods;
       (iii) identify the environmental observations that are 
     essential to the performance of weather models, based on an 
     assessment of Federal, academic, and private sector weather 
     research, and the cost of obtaining the environmental data;
       (iv) identify environmental observations that improve the 
     quality of operational and research weather models in effect 
     on the day before the date of enactment of this Act;
       (v) identify and prioritize new environmental observations 
     that could contribute to existing and future weather models; 
     and
       (vi) develop recommendations on a portfolio of 
     environmental observations that balances essential, quality-
     improving, and new data, private and nonprivate sources, and 
     space-based and Earth-based sources.
       (C) Deadline and report.--In carrying out the study under 
     subparagraph (A), the National Academy of Sciences shall 
     complete and transmit to the Under Secretary a report 
     containing the findings of the National Academy of Sciences 
     with respect to the study not later than 2 years after the 
     date on which the Administrator enters into an agreement with 
     the National Academy of Sciences under paragraph (1)(A).
       (3) Alternate organization.--
       (A) In general.--If the Under Secretary is unable within 
     the period prescribed in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) to 
     enter into an agreement described in subparagraph (A) of such 
     paragraph with the National Academy of Sciences on terms 
     acceptable to the Under Secretary, the Under Secretary shall 
     seek to enter into such an agreement with another appropriate 
     organization that--
       (i) is not part of the Federal Government;
       (ii) operates as a not-for-profit entity; and
       (iii) has expertise and objectivity comparable to that of 
     the National Academy of Sciences.
       (B) Treatment.--If the Under Secretary enters into an 
     agreement with another organization as described in 
     subparagraph (A), any reference in this subsection to the 
     National Academy of Sciences shall be treated as a reference 
     to the other organization.
       (4) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized 
     to be appropriated, out of funds appropriated to National 
     Environmental Satellite, Data, and Information Service, to 
     carry out this subsection $1,000,000 for the period 
     encompassing fiscal years 2018 through 2019.

     SEC. 302. COMMERCIAL WEATHER DATA.

       (a) Data and Hosted Satellite Payloads.--Notwithstanding 
     any other provision of law, the Secretary of Commerce may 
     enter into agreements for--
       (1) the purchase of weather data through contracts with 
     commercial providers; and
       (2) the placement of weather satellite instruments on 
     cohosted government or private payloads.
       (b) Strategy.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce, in 
     consultation with the Under Secretary, shall submit to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
     Senate and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of 
     the House of Representatives a strategy to enable the 
     procurement of quality commercial weather data. The strategy 
     shall assess the range of commercial opportunities, including 
     public-private partnerships, for obtaining surface-based, 
     aviation-based, and space-based weather observations. The 
     strategy shall include the expected cost-effectiveness of 
     these opportunities as well as provide a plan for procuring 
     data, including an expected implementation timeline, from 
     these nongovernmental sources, as appropriate.
       (2) Requirements.--The strategy shall include--
       (A) an analysis of financial or other benefits to, and 
     risks associated with, acquiring commercial weather data or 
     services, including through multiyear acquisition approaches;
       (B) an identification of methods to address planning, 
     programming, budgeting, and execution challenges to such 
     approaches, including--
       (i) how standards will be set to ensure that data is 
     reliable and effective;
       (ii) how data may be acquired through commercial 
     experimental or innovative techniques and then evaluated for 
     integration into operational use;
       (iii) how to guarantee public access to all forecast-
     critical data to ensure that the United

[[Page H2657]]

     States weather industry and the public continue to have 
     access to information critical to their work; and
       (iv) in accordance with section 50503 of title 51, United 
     States Code, methods to address potential termination 
     liability or cancellation costs associated with weather data 
     or service contracts; and
       (C) an identification of any changes needed in the 
     requirements development and approval processes of the 
     Department of Commerce to facilitate effective and efficient 
     implementation of such strategy.
       (3) Authority for agreements.--The Assistant Administrator 
     for National Environmental Satellite, Data, and Information 
     Service may enter into multiyear agreements necessary to 
     carry out the strategy developed under this subsection.
       (c) Pilot Program.--
       (1) Criteria.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall publish data 
     and metadata standards and specifications for space-based 
     commercial weather data, including radio occultation data, 
     and, as soon as possible, geostationary hyperspectral sounder 
     data.
       (2) Pilot contracts.--
       (A) Contracts.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall, through an 
     open competition, enter into at least one pilot contract with 
     one or more private sector entities capable of providing data 
     that meet the standards and specifications set by the Under 
     Secretary for providing commercial weather data in a manner 
     that allows the Under Secretary to calibrate and evaluate the 
     data for its use in National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
     Administration meteorological models.
       (B) Assessment of data viability.--Not later than the date 
     that is 3 years after the date on which the Under Secretary 
     enters into a contract under subparagraph (A), the Under 
     Secretary shall assess and submit to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the 
     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of 
     Representatives the results of a determination of the extent 
     to which data provided under the contract entered into under 
     subparagraph (A) meet the criteria published under paragraph 
     (1) and the extent to which the pilot program has 
     demonstrated--
       (i) the viability of assimilating the commercially provided 
     data into National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
     meteorological models;
       (ii) whether, and by how much, the data add value to 
     weather forecasts; and
       (iii) the accuracy, quality, timeliness, validity, 
     reliability, usability, information technology security, and 
     cost-effectiveness of obtaining commercial weather data from 
     private sector providers.
       (3) Authorization of appropriations.--For each of fiscal 
     years 2017 through 2020, there are authorized to be 
     appropriated for procurement, acquisition, and construction 
     at National Environmental Satellite, Data, and Information 
     Service, $6,000,000 to carry out this subsection.
       (d) Obtaining Future Data.--If an assessment under 
     subsection (c)(2)(B) demonstrates the ability of commercial 
     weather data to meet data and metadata standards and 
     specifications published under subsection (c)(1), the Under 
     Secretary shall--
       (1) where appropriate, cost-effective, and feasible, obtain 
     commercial weather data from private sector providers;
       (2) as early as possible in the acquisition process for any 
     future National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
     meteorological space system, consider whether there is a 
     suitable, cost-effective, commercial capability available or 
     that will be available to meet any or all of the 
     observational requirements by the planned operational date of 
     the system;
       (3) if a suitable, cost-effective, commercial capability is 
     or will be available as described in paragraph (2), determine 
     whether it is in the national interest to develop a 
     governmental meteorological space system; and
       (4) submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Science, 
     Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives a 
     report detailing any determination made under paragraphs (2) 
     and (3).
       (e) Data Sharing Practices.--The Under Secretary shall 
     continue to meet the international meteorological agreements 
     into which the Under Secretary has entered, including 
     practices set forth through World Meteorological Organization 
     Resolution 40.

     SEC. 303. UNNECESSARY DUPLICATION.

       In meeting the requirements under this title, the Under 
     Secretary shall avoid unnecessary duplication between public 
     and private sources of data and the corresponding expenditure 
     of funds and employment of personnel.

                 TITLE IV--FEDERAL WEATHER COORDINATION

     SEC. 401. ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION SERVICES WORKING GROUP.

       (a) Establishment.--The National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
     Administration Science Advisory Board shall continue to 
     maintain a standing working group named the Environmental 
     Information Services Working Group (in this section referred 
     to as the ``Working Group'')--
       (1) to provide advice for prioritizing weather research 
     initiatives at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
     Administration to produce real improvement in weather 
     forecasting;
       (2) to provide advice on existing or emerging technologies 
     or techniques that can be found in private industry or the 
     research community that could be incorporated into 
     forecasting at the National Weather Service to improve 
     forecasting skill;
       (3) to identify opportunities to improve--
       (A) communications between weather forecasters, Federal, 
     State, local, tribal, and other emergency management 
     personnel, and the public; and
       (B) communications and partnerships among the National 
     Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the private and 
     academic sectors; and
       (4) to address such other matters as the Science Advisory 
     Board requests of the Working Group.
       (b) Composition.--
       (1) In general.--The Working Group shall be composed of 
     leading experts and innovators from all relevant fields of 
     science and engineering including atmospheric chemistry, 
     atmospheric physics, meteorology, hydrology, social science, 
     risk communications, electrical engineering, and computer 
     sciences. In carrying out this section, the Working Group may 
     organize into subpanels.
       (2) Number.--The Working Group shall be composed of no 
     fewer than 15 members. Nominees for the Working Group may be 
     forwarded by the Working Group for approval by the Science 
     Advisory Board. Members of the Working Group may choose a 
     chair (or co-chairs) from among their number with approval by 
     the Science Advisory Board.
       (c) Annual Report.--Not less frequently than once each 
     year, the Working Group shall transmit to the Science 
     Advisory Board for submission to the Under Secretary a report 
     on progress made by National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
     Administration in adopting the Working Group's 
     recommendations. The Science Advisory Board shall transmit 
     this report to the Under Secretary. Within 30 days of receipt 
     of such report, the Under Secretary shall submit to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
     Senate and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of 
     the House of Representatives a copy of such report.

     SEC. 402. INTERAGENCY WEATHER RESEARCH AND FORECAST 
                   INNOVATION COORDINATION.

       (a) Establishment.--The Director of the Office of Science 
     and Technology Policy shall establish an Interagency 
     Committee for Advancing Weather Services to improve 
     coordination of relevant weather research and forecast 
     innovation activities across the Federal Government. The 
     Interagency Committee shall--
       (1) include participation by the National Aeronautics and 
     Space Administration, the Federal Aviation Administration, 
     National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and its 
     constituent elements, the National Science Foundation, and 
     such other agencies involved in weather forecasting research 
     as the President determines are appropriate;
       (2) identify and prioritize top forecast needs and 
     coordinate those needs against budget requests and program 
     initiatives across participating offices and agencies; and
       (3) share information regarding operational needs and 
     forecasting improvements across relevant agencies.
       (b) Co-Chair.--The Federal Coordinator for Meteorology 
     shall serve as a co-chair of this panel.
       (c) Further Coordination.--The Director of the Office of 
     Science and Technology Policy shall take such other steps as 
     are necessary to coordinate the activities of the Federal 
     Government with those of the United States weather industry, 
     State governments, emergency managers, and academic 
     researchers.

     SEC. 403. OFFICE OF OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC RESEARCH AND 
                   NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE EXCHANGE PROGRAM.

       (a) In General.--The Assistant Administrator for Oceanic 
     and Atmospheric Research and the Director of National Weather 
     Service may establish a program to detail Office of Oceanic 
     and Atmospheric Research personnel to the National Weather 
     Service and National Weather Service personnel to the Office 
     of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research.
       (b) Goal.--The goal of this program is to enhance 
     forecasting innovation through regular, direct interaction 
     between the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research's 
     world-class scientists and the National Weather Service's 
     operational staff.
       (c) Elements.--The program shall allow up to 10 Office of 
     Oceanic and Atmospheric Research staff and National Weather 
     Service staff to spend up to 1 year on detail. Candidates 
     shall be jointly selected by the Assistant Administrator for 
     Oceanic and Atmospheric Research and the Director of the 
     National Weather Service.
       (d) Annual Report.--Not less frequently than once each 
     year, the Under Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the 
     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of 
     Representatives a report on participation in such program and 
     shall highlight any innovations that come from this 
     interaction.

     SEC. 404. VISITING FELLOWS AT NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE.

       (a) In General.--The Director of the National Weather 
     Service may establish a program to host postdoctoral fellows 
     and academic researchers at any of the National Centers for 
     Environmental Prediction.
       (b) Goal.--This program shall be designed to provide direct 
     interaction between forecasters and talented academic and 
     private sector researchers in an effort to bring innovation 
     to forecasting tools and techniques to the National Weather 
     Service.
       (c) Selection and Appointment.--Such fellows shall be 
     competitively selected and appointed for a term not to exceed 
     1 year.

     SEC. 405. WARNING COORDINATION METEOROLOGISTS AT WEATHER 
                   FORECAST OFFICES OF NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE.

       (a) Designation of Warning Coordination Meteorologists.--

[[Page H2658]]

       (1) In general.--The Director of the National Weather 
     Service shall designate at least one warning coordination 
     meteorologist at each weather forecast office of the National 
     Weather Service.
       (2) No additional employees authorized.--Nothing in this 
     section shall be construed to authorize or require a change 
     in the authorized number of full time equivalent employees in 
     the National Weather Service or otherwise result in the 
     employment of any additional employees.
       (3) Performance by other employees.--Performance of the 
     responsibilities outlined in this section is not limited to 
     the warning coordination meteorologist position.
       (b) Primary Role of Warning Coordination Meteorologists.--
     The primary role of the warning coordination meteorologist 
     shall be to carry out the responsibilities required by this 
     section.
       (c) Responsibilities.--
       (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), consistent with 
     the analysis described in section 409, and in order to 
     increase impact-based decision support services, each warning 
     coordination meteorologist designated under subsection (a) 
     shall--
       (A) be responsible for providing service to the geographic 
     area of responsibility covered by the weather forecast office 
     at which the warning coordination meteorologist is employed 
     to help ensure that users of products of the National Weather 
     Service can respond effectively to improve outcomes from 
     weather events;
       (B) liaise with users of products and services of the 
     National Weather Service, such as the public, media outlets, 
     users in the aviation, marine, and agricultural communities, 
     and forestry, land, and water management interests, to 
     evaluate the adequacy and usefulness of the products and 
     services of the National Weather Service;
       (C) collaborate with such weather forecast offices and 
     State, local, and tribal government agencies as the Director 
     considers appropriate in developing, proposing, and 
     implementing plans to develop, modify, or tailor products and 
     services of the National Weather Service to improve the 
     usefulness of such products and services;
       (D) ensure the maintenance and accuracy of severe weather 
     call lists, appropriate office severe weather policy or 
     procedures, and other severe weather or dissemination 
     methodologies or strategies; and
       (E) work closely with State, local, and tribal emergency 
     management agencies, and other agencies related to disaster 
     management, to ensure a planned, coordinated, and effective 
     preparedness and response effort.
       (2) Other staff.--The Director may assign a responsibility 
     set forth in paragraph (1) to such other staff as the 
     Director considers appropriate to carry out such 
     responsibility.
       (d) Additional Responsibilities.--
       (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), a warning 
     coordination meteorologist designated under subsection (a) 
     may--
       (A) work with a State agency to develop plans for promoting 
     more effective use of products and services of the National 
     Weather Service throughout the State;
       (B) identify priority community preparedness objectives;
       (C) develop plans to meet the objectives identified under 
     paragraph (2); and
       (D) conduct severe weather event preparedness planning and 
     citizen education efforts with and through various State, 
     local, and tribal government agencies and other disaster 
     management-related organizations.
       (2) Other staff.--The Director may assign a responsibility 
     set forth in paragraph (1) to such other staff as the 
     Director considers appropriate to carry out such 
     responsibility.
       (e) Placement With State and Local Emergency Managers.--
       (1) In general.--In carrying out this section, the Director 
     of the National Weather Service may place a warning 
     coordination meteorologist designated under subsection (a) 
     with a State or local emergency manager if the Director 
     considers doing so is necessary or convenient to carry out 
     this section.
       (2) Treatment.--If the Director determines that the 
     placement of a warning coordination meteorologist placed with 
     a State or local emergency manager under paragraph (1) is 
     near a weather forecast office of the National Weather 
     Service, such placement shall be treated as designation of 
     the warning coordination meteorologist at such weather 
     forecast office for purposes of subsection (a).

     SEC. 406. IMPROVING NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC 
                   ADMINISTRATION COMMUNICATION OF HAZARDOUS 
                   WEATHER AND WATER EVENTS.

       (a) Purpose of System.--For purposes of the assessment 
     required by subsection (b)(1)(A), the purpose of National 
     Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration system for issuing 
     watches and warnings regarding hazardous weather and water 
     events shall be risk communication to the general public that 
     informs action to prevent loss of life and property.
       (b) Assessment of System.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall--
       (A) assess the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
     Administration system for issuing watches and warnings 
     regarding hazardous weather and water events; and
       (B) submit to Congress a report on the findings of the 
     Under Secretary with respect to the assessment conducted 
     under subparagraph (A).
       (2) Elements.--The assessment required by paragraph (1)(A) 
     shall include the following:
       (A) An evaluation of whether the National Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration system for issuing watches and 
     warnings regarding hazardous weather and water events meets 
     the purpose described in subsection (a).
       (B) Development of recommendations for--
       (i) legislative and administrative action to improve the 
     system described in paragraph (1)(A); and
       (ii) such research as the Under Secretary considers 
     necessary to address the focus areas described in paragraph 
     (3).
       (3) Focus areas.--The assessment required by paragraph 
     (1)(A) shall focus on the following:
       (A) Ways to communicate the risks posed by hazardous 
     weather or water events to the public that are most likely to 
     result in action to mitigate the risk.
       (B) Ways to communicate the risks posed by hazardous 
     weather or water events to the public as broadly and rapidly 
     as practicable.
       (C) Ways to preserve the benefits of the existing watches 
     and warnings system.
       (D) Ways to maintain the utility of the watches and 
     warnings system for Government and commercial users of the 
     system.
       (4) Consultation.--In conducting the assessment required by 
     paragraph (1)(A), the Under Secretary shall--
       (A) consult with such line offices within the National 
     Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration as the Under Secretary 
     considers relevant, including the National Ocean Service, the 
     National Weather Service, and the Office of Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Research;
       (B) consult with individuals in the academic sector, 
     including individuals in the field of social and behavioral 
     sciences, and other weather services;
       (C) consult with media outlets that will be distributing 
     the watches and warnings;
       (D) consult with non-Federal forecasters that produce 
     alternate severe weather risk communication products;
       (E) consult with emergency planners and responders, 
     including State and local emergency management agencies, and 
     other government users of the watches and warnings system, 
     including the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Office 
     of Personnel Management, the Coast Guard, and such other 
     Federal agencies as the Under Secretary determines rely on 
     watches and warnings for operational decisions; and
       (F) make use of the services of the National Academy of 
     Sciences, as the Under Secretary considers necessary and 
     practicable, including contracting with the National Research 
     Council to review the scientific and technical soundness of 
     the assessment required by paragraph (1)(A), including the 
     recommendations developed under paragraph (2)(B).
       (5) Methodologies.--In conducting the assessment required 
     by paragraph (1)(A), the Under Secretary shall use such 
     methodologies as the Under Secretary considers are generally 
     accepted by the weather enterprise, including social and 
     behavioral sciences.
       (c) Improvements to System.--
       (1) In general.--The Under Secretary shall, based on the 
     assessment required by subsection (b)(1)(A), make such 
     recommendations to Congress to improve the system as the 
     Under Secretary considers necessary--
       (A) to improve the system for issuing watches and warnings 
     regarding hazardous weather and water events; and
       (B) to support efforts to satisfy research needs to enable 
     future improvements to such system.
       (2) Requirements regarding recommendations.--In carrying 
     out paragraph (1)(A), the Under Secretary shall ensure that 
     any recommendation that the Under Secretary considers a major 
     change--
       (A) is validated by social and behavioral science using a 
     generalizable sample;
       (B) accounts for the needs of various demographics, 
     vulnerable populations, and geographic regions;
       (C) accounts for the differences between types of weather 
     and water hazards;
       (D) responds to the needs of Federal, State, and local 
     government partners and media partners; and
       (E) accounts for necessary changes to Federally operated 
     watch and warning propagation and dissemination 
     infrastructure and protocols.
       (d) Watches and Warnings Defined.--
       (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), in 
     this section, the terms ``watch'' and ``warning'', with 
     respect to a hazardous weather and water event, mean products 
     issued by the Administration, intended for consumption by the 
     general public, to alert the general public to the potential 
     for or presence of the event and to inform action to prevent 
     loss of life and property.
       (2) Exception.--ln this section, the terms ``watch'' and 
     ``warning'' do not include technical or specialized 
     meteorological and hydrological forecasts, outlooks, or model 
     guidance products.

     SEC. 407. NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION 
                   WEATHER READY ALL HAZARDS AWARD PROGRAM.

       (a) Program.--The Director of the National Weather Service 
     is authorized to establish the National Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration Weather Ready All Hazards Award 
     Program. This award program shall provide annual awards to 
     honor individuals or organizations that use or provide 
     National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Weather Radio 
     All Hazards receivers or transmitters to save lives and 
     protect property. Individuals or organizations that utilize 
     other early warning tools or applications also qualify for 
     this award.
       (b) Goal.--This award program draws attention to the life-
     saving work of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
     Administration Weather Ready All Hazards Program, as well as 
     emerging tools and applications, that provide real-time 
     warning to individuals and communities of severe weather or 
     other hazardous conditions.
       (c) Program Elements.--
       (1) Nominations.--Nominations for this award shall be made 
     annually by the Weather

[[Page H2659]]

     Field Offices to the Director of the National Weather 
     Service. Broadcast meteorologists, weather radio 
     manufacturers and weather warning tool and application 
     developers, emergency managers, and public safety officials 
     may nominate individuals or organizations to their local 
     Weather Field Offices, but the final list of award nominees 
     must come from the Weather Field Offices.
       (2) Selection of awardees.--Annually, the Director of the 
     National Weather Service shall choose winners of this award 
     whose timely actions, based on National Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration Weather Radio All Hazards 
     receivers or transmitters or other early warning tools and 
     applications, saved lives or property, or demonstrated public 
     service in support of weather or all hazard warnings.
       (3) Award ceremony.--The Director of the National Weather 
     Service shall establish a means of making these awards to 
     provide maximum public awareness of the importance of 
     National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Weather 
     Radio, and such other warning tools and applications as are 
     represented in the awards.

     SEC. 408. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE WEATHER FORECASTING 
                   ACTIVITIES.

       Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, the Under Secretary shall submit to the Committee 
     on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and 
     the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House 
     of Representatives a report analyzing the impacts of the 
     proposed Air Force divestiture in the United States Weather 
     Research and Forecasting Model, including--
       (1) the impact on--
       (A) the United States weather forecasting capabilities;
       (B) the accuracy of civilian regional forecasts;
       (C) the civilian readiness for traditional weather and 
     extreme weather events in the United States; and
       (D) the research necessary to develop the United States 
     Weather Research and Forecasting Model; and
       (2) such other analysis relating to the divestiture as the 
     Under Secretary considers appropriate.

     SEC. 409. NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE; OPERATIONS AND WORKFORCE 
                   ANALYSIS.

       The Under Secretary shall contract or continue to partner 
     with an external organization to conduct a baseline analysis 
     of National Weather Service operations and workforce.

     SEC. 410. REPORT ON CONTRACT POSITIONS AT NATIONAL WEATHER 
                   SERVICE.

       (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
     date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall 
     submit to Congress a report on the use of contractors at the 
     National Weather Service for the most recently completed 
     fiscal year.
       (b) Contents.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
     include, with respect to the most recently completed fiscal 
     year, the following:
       (1) The total number of full-time equivalent employees at 
     the National Weather Service, disaggregated by each 
     equivalent level of the General Schedule.
       (2) The total number of full-time equivalent contractors at 
     the National Weather Service, disaggregated by each 
     equivalent level of the General Schedule that most closely 
     approximates their duties.
       (3) The total number of vacant positions at the National 
     Weather Service on the day before the date of enactment of 
     this Act, disaggregated by each equivalent level of the 
     General Schedule.
       (4) The five most common positions filled by full-time 
     equivalent contractors at the National Weather Service and 
     the equivalent level of the General Schedule that most 
     closely approximates the duties of such positions.
       (5) Of the positions identified under paragraph (4), the 
     percentage of full-time equivalent contractors in those 
     positions that have held a prior position at the National 
     Weather Service or another entity in National Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration.
       (6) The average full-time equivalent salary for Federal 
     employees at the National Weather Service for each equivalent 
     level of the General Schedule.
       (7) The average salary for full-time equivalent contractors 
     performing at each equivalent level of the General Schedule 
     at the National Weather Service.
       (8) A description of any actions taken by the Under 
     Secretary to respond to the issues raised by the Inspector 
     General of the Department of Commerce regarding the hiring of 
     former National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
     employees as contractors at the National Weather Service such 
     as the issues raised in the Investigative Report dated June 
     2, 2015 (OIG-12-0447).
       (c) Annual Publication.--For each fiscal year after the 
     fiscal year covered by the report required by subsection (a), 
     the Under Secretary shall, not later than 180 days after the 
     completion of the fiscal year, publish on a publicly 
     accessible Internet website the information described in 
     paragraphs (1) through (8) of subsection (b) for such fiscal 
     year.

     SEC. 411. WEATHER IMPACTS TO COMMUNITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE.

       (a) Review.--
       (1) In general.--The Director of the National Weather 
     Service shall review existing research, products, and 
     services that meet the specific needs of the urban 
     environment, given its unique physical characteristics and 
     forecasting challenges.
       (2) Elements.--The review required by paragraph (1) shall 
     include research, products, and services with the potential 
     to improve modeling and forecasting capabilities, taking into 
     account factors including varying building heights, 
     impermeable surfaces, lack of tree canopy, traffic, 
     pollution, and inter-building wind effects.
       (b) Report and Assessment.--Upon completion of the review 
     required by subsection (a), the Under Secretary shall submit 
     to Congress a report on the research, products, and services 
     of the National Weather Service, including an assessment of 
     such research, products, and services that is based on the 
     review, public comment, and recent publications by the 
     National Academy of Sciences.

     SEC. 412. WEATHER ENTERPRISE OUTREACH.

       (a) In General.--The Under Secretary may establish 
     mechanisms for outreach to the weather enterprise--
       (1) to assess the weather forecasts and forecast products 
     provided by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
     Administration; and
       (2) to determine the highest priority weather forecast 
     needs of the community described in subsection (b).
       (b) Outreach Community.--In conducting outreach under 
     subsection (a), the Under Secretary shall contact leading 
     experts and innovators from relevant stakeholders, including 
     the representatives from the following:
       (1) State or local emergency management agencies.
       (2) State agriculture agencies.
       (3) Indian tribes (as defined in section 4 of the Indian 
     Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 
     5304)) and Native Hawaiians (as defined in section 6207 of 
     the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
     7517)).
       (4) The private aerospace industry.
       (5) The private earth observing industry.
       (6) The operational forecasting community.
       (7) The academic community.
       (8) Professional societies that focus on meteorology.
       (9) Such other stakeholder groups as the Under Secretary 
     considers appropriate.

     SEC. 413. HURRICANE HUNTER AIRCRAFT.

       (a) Backup Capability.--The Under Secretary shall acquire 
     backup for the capabilities of the WP-3D Orion and G-IV 
     hurricane aircraft of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
     Administration that is sufficient to prevent a single point 
     of failure.
       (b) Authority to Enter Agreements.--In order to carry out 
     subsection (a), the Under Secretary shall negotiate and enter 
     into 1 or more agreements or contracts, to the extent 
     practicable and necessary, with governmental and non-
     governmental entities.
       (c) Future Technology.--The Under Secretary shall continue 
     the development of Airborne Phased Array Radar under the 
     United States Weather Research Program.
       (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--For each of fiscal 
     years 2017 through 2020, support for implementing subsections 
     (a) and (b) is authorized out of funds appropriated to the 
     Office of Marine and Aviation Operations.

     SEC. 414. STUDY ON GAPS IN NEXRAD COVERAGE AND 
                   RECOMMENDATIONS TO ADDRESS SUCH GAPS.

       (a) Study on Gaps in NEXRAD Coverage.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce shall 
     complete a study on gaps in the coverage of the Next 
     Generation Weather Radar of the National Weather Service 
     (``NEXRAD'').
       (2) Elements.--In conducting the study required under 
     paragraph (1), the Secretary shall--
       (A) identify areas in the United States where limited or no 
     NEXRAD coverage has resulted in--
       (i) instances in which no or insufficient warnings were 
     given for hazardous weather events, including tornadoes; or
       (ii) degraded forecasts for hazardous weather events that 
     resulted in fatalities, significant injuries, or substantial 
     property damage; and
       (B) for the areas identified under subparagraph (A)--
       (i) identify the key weather effects for which prediction 
     would improve with improved radar detection;
       (ii) identify additional sources of observations for high 
     impact weather that were available and operational for such 
     areas on the day before the date of the enactment of this 
     Act, including dense networks of x-band radars, Terminal 
     Doppler Weather Radar (commonly known as ``TDWR''), air 
     surveillance radars of the Federal Aviation Administration, 
     and cooperative network observers;
       (iii) assess the feasibility and advisability of efforts to 
     integrate and upgrade Federal radar capabilities that are not 
     owned or controlled by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
     Administration, including radar capabilities of the Federal 
     Aviation Administration and the Department of Defense;
       (iv) assess the feasibility and advisability of 
     incorporating State-operated and other non-Federal radars 
     into the operations of the National Weather Service;
       (v) identify options to improve hazardous weather detection 
     and forecasting coverage; and
       (vi) provide the estimated cost of, and timeline for, each 
     of the options identified under clause (v).
       (3) Report.--Upon the completion of the study required 
     under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
     Senate and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of 
     the House of Representatives a report that includes the 
     findings of the Secretary with respect to the study.
       (b) Recommendations to Improve Radar Coverage.--Not later 
     than 90 days after the completion of the study under 
     subsection (a)(1), the Secretary of Commerce shall submit to 
     the congressional committees referred to in subsection (a)(3) 
     recommendations for improving

[[Page H2660]]

     hazardous weather detection and forecasting coverage in the 
     areas identified under subsection (a)(2)(A) by integrating 
     additional observation solutions to the extent practicable 
     and meteorologically justified and necessary to protect 
     public safety.
       (c) Third-party Consultation Regarding Recommendations to 
     Improve Radar Coverage.--The Secretary of Commerce may seek 
     reviews by, or consult with, appropriate third parties 
     regarding the scientific methodology relating to, and the 
     feasibility and advisability of implementing, the 
     recommendations submitted under subsection (b), including the 
     extent to which warning and forecast services of the National 
     Weather Service would be improved by additional observations.

     TITLE V--TSUNAMI WARNING, EDUCATION, AND RESEARCH ACT OF 2017

     SEC. 501. SHORT TITLE.

       This title may be cited as the ``Tsunami Warning, 
     Education, and Research Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 502. REFERENCES TO THE TSUNAMI WARNING AND EDUCATION 
                   ACT.

       Except as otherwise expressly provided, whenever in this 
     title an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an 
     amendment to, or repeal of, a section or other provision, the 
     reference shall be considered to be made to a section or 
     other provision of the Tsunami Warning and Education Act 
     enacted as title VIII of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
     Conservation and Management Reauthorization Act of 2006 
     (Public Law 109-479; 33 U.S.C. 3201 et seq.).

     SEC. 503. EXPANSION OF PURPOSES OF TSUNAMI WARNING AND 
                   EDUCATION ACT.

       Section 803 (33 U.S.C. 3202) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``research,'' after 
     ``warnings,'';
       (2) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
       ``(2) to enhance and modernize the existing United States 
     Tsunami Warning System to increase the accuracy of forecasts 
     and warnings, to ensure full coverage of tsunami threats to 
     the United States with a network of detection assets, and to 
     reduce false alarms;'';
       (3) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
       ``(3) to improve and develop standards and guidelines for 
     mapping, modeling, and assessment efforts to improve tsunami 
     detection, forecasting, warnings, notification, mitigation, 
     resiliency, response, outreach, and recovery;'';
       (4) by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5), and (6) as 
     paragraphs (5), (6), and (8), respectively;
       (5) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
       ``(4) to improve research efforts related to improving 
     tsunami detection, forecasting, warnings, notification, 
     mitigation, resiliency, response, outreach, and recovery;'';
       (6) in paragraph (5), as redesignated--
       (A) by striking ``and increase'' and inserting ``, 
     increase, and develop uniform standards and guidelines for''; 
     and
       (B) by inserting ``, including the warning signs of locally 
     generated tsunami'' after ``approaching'';
       (7) in paragraph (6), as redesignated, by striking ``, 
     including the Indian Ocean; and'' and inserting a semicolon; 
     and
       (8) by inserting after paragraph (6), as redesignated, the 
     following:
       ``(7) to foster resilient communities in the face of 
     tsunami and other similar coastal hazards; and''.

     SEC. 504. MODIFICATION OF TSUNAMI FORECASTING AND WARNING 
                   PROGRAM.

       (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 804 (33 U.S.C. 
     3203(a)) is amended by striking ``Atlantic Ocean, Caribbean 
     Sea, and Gulf of Mexico region'' and inserting ``Atlantic 
     Ocean region, including the Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of 
     Mexico''.
       (b) Components.--Subsection (b) of section 804 (33 U.S.C. 
     3203(b)) is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``established'' and 
     inserting ``supported or maintained'';
       (2) by redesignating paragraphs (7) through (9) as 
     paragraphs (8) through (10), respectively;
       (3) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (6) as 
     paragraphs (3) through (7), respectively;
       (4) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
       ``(2) to the degree practicable, maintain not less than 80 
     percent of the Deep-ocean Assessment and Reporting of 
     Tsunamis buoy array at operational capacity to optimize data 
     reliability;''.
       (5) by amending paragraph (5), as redesignated by paragraph 
     (3), to read as follows:
       ``(5) provide tsunami forecasting capability based on 
     models and measurements, including tsunami inundation models 
     and maps for use in increasing the preparedness of 
     communities and safeguarding port and harbor operations, that 
     incorporate inputs, including--
       ``(A) the United States and global ocean and coastal 
     observing system;
       ``(B) the global Earth observing system;
       ``(C) the global seismic network;
       ``(D) the Advanced National Seismic system;
       ``(E) tsunami model validation using historical and 
     paleotsunami data;
       ``(F) digital elevation models and bathymetry; and
       ``(G) newly developing tsunami detection methodologies 
     using satellites and airborne remote sensing;'';
       (6) by amending paragraph (7), as redesignated by paragraph 
     (3), to read as follows:
       ``(7) include a cooperative effort among the 
     Administration, the United States Geological Survey, and the 
     National Science Foundation under which the Director of the 
     United States Geological Survey and the Director of the 
     National Science Foundation shall--
       ``(A) provide rapid and reliable seismic information to the 
     Administrator from international and domestic seismic 
     networks; and
       ``(B) support seismic stations installed before the date of 
     the enactment of the Tsunami Warning, Education, and Research 
     Act of 2017 to supplement coverage in areas of sparse 
     instrumentation;'';
       (7) in paragraph (8), as redesignated by paragraph (2)--
       (A) by inserting ``, including graphical warning 
     products,'' after ``warnings'';
       (B) by inserting ``, territories,'' after ``States''; and
       (C) by inserting ``and Wireless Emergency Alerts'' after 
     ``Hazards Program''; and
       (8) in paragraph (9), as redesignated by paragraph (2)--
       (A) by inserting ``provide and'' before ``allow''; and
       (B) by inserting ``and commercial and Federal undersea 
     communications cables'' after ``observing technologies''.
       (c) Tsunami Warning System.--Subsection (c) of section 804 
     (33 U.S.C. 3203(c)) is amended to read as follows:
       ``(c) Tsunami Warning System.--The program under this 
     section shall operate a tsunami warning system that--
       ``(1) is capable of forecasting tsunami, including 
     forecasting tsunami arrival time and inundation estimates, 
     anywhere in the Pacific and Arctic Ocean regions and 
     providing adequate warnings;
       ``(2) is capable of forecasting and providing adequate 
     warnings, including tsunami arrival time and inundation 
     models where applicable, in areas of the Atlantic Ocean, 
     including the Caribbean Sea and Gulf of Mexico, that are 
     determined--
       ``(A) to be geologically active, or to have significant 
     potential for geological activity; and
       ``(B) to pose significant risks of tsunami for States along 
     the coastal areas of the Atlantic Ocean, Caribbean Sea, or 
     Gulf of Mexico; and
       ``(3) supports other international tsunami forecasting and 
     warning efforts.''.
       (d) Tsunami Warning Centers.--Subsection (d) of section 804 
     (33 U.S.C. 3203(d)) is amended to read as follows:
       ``(d) Tsunami Warning Centers.--
       ``(1) In general.--The Administrator shall support or 
     maintain centers to support the tsunami warning system 
     required by subsection (c). The Centers shall include--
       ``(A) the National Tsunami Warning Center, located in 
     Alaska, which is primarily responsible for Alaska and the 
     continental United States;
       ``(B) the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center, located in 
     Hawaii, which is primarily responsible for Hawaii, the 
     Caribbean, and other areas of the Pacific not covered by the 
     National Center; and
       ``(C) any additional forecast and warning centers 
     determined by the National Weather Service to be necessary.
       ``(2) Responsibilities.--The responsibilities of the 
     centers supported or maintained under paragraph (1) shall 
     include the following:
       ``(A) Continuously monitoring data from seismological, deep 
     ocean, coastal sea level, and tidal monitoring stations and 
     other data sources as may be developed and deployed.
       ``(B) Evaluating earthquakes, landslides, and volcanic 
     eruptions that have the potential to generate tsunami.
       ``(C) Evaluating deep ocean buoy data and tidal monitoring 
     stations for indications of tsunami resulting from 
     earthquakes and other sources.
       ``(D) To the extent practicable, utilizing a range of 
     models, including ensemble models, to predict tsunami, 
     including arrival times, flooding estimates, coastal and 
     harbor currents, and duration.
       ``(E) Using data from the Integrated Ocean Observing System 
     of the Administration in coordination with regional 
     associations to calculate new inundation estimates and 
     periodically update existing inundation estimates.
       ``(F) Disseminating forecasts and tsunami warning bulletins 
     to Federal, State, tribal, and local government officials and 
     the public.
       ``(G) Coordinating with the tsunami hazard mitigation 
     program conducted under section 805 to ensure ongoing sharing 
     of information between forecasters and emergency management 
     officials.
       ``(H) In coordination with the Commandant of the Coast 
     Guard and the Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
     Management Agency, evaluating and recommending procedures for 
     ports and harbors at risk of tsunami inundation, including 
     review of readiness, response, and communication strategies, 
     and data sharing policies, to the maximum extent practicable.
       ``(I) Making data gathered under this Act and post-warning 
     analyses conducted by the National Weather Service or other 
     relevant Administration offices available to the public.
       ``(J) Integrating and modernizing the program operated 
     under this section with advances in tsunami science to 
     improve performance without compromising service.
       ``(3) Fail-safe warning capability.--The tsunami warning 
     centers supported or maintained under paragraph (1) shall 
     maintain a fail-safe warning capability and perform back-up 
     duties for each other.
       ``(4) Coordination with national weather service.--The 
     Administrator shall coordinate with the forecast offices of 
     the National Weather Service, the centers supported or 
     maintained under paragraph (1), and such program offices of 
     the Administration as the Administrator or the coordinating 
     committee, as established in section 805(d), consider 
     appropriate to ensure that regional and local forecast 
     offices--
       ``(A) have the technical knowledge and capability to 
     disseminate tsunami warnings for the communities they serve;
       ``(B) leverage connections with local emergency management 
     officials for optimally disseminating tsunami warnings and 
     forecasts; and
       ``(C) implement mass communication tools in effect on the 
     day before the date of the enactment of the Tsunami Warning, 
     Education, and

[[Page H2661]]

     Research Act of 2017 used by the National Weather Service on 
     such date and newer mass communication technologies as they 
     are developed as a part of the Weather-Ready Nation program 
     of the Administration, or otherwise, for the purpose of 
     timely and effective delivery of tsunami warnings.
       ``(5) Uniform operating procedures.--The Administrator 
     shall--
       ``(A) develop uniform operational procedures for the 
     centers supported or maintained under paragraph (1), 
     including the use of software applications, checklists, 
     decision support tools, and tsunami warning products that 
     have been standardized across the program supported under 
     this section;
       ``(B) ensure that processes and products of the warning 
     system operated under subsection (c)--
       ``(i) reflect industry best practices when practicable;
       ``(ii) conform to the maximum extent practicable with 
     internationally recognized standards for information 
     technology; and
       ``(iii) conform to the maximum extent practicable with 
     other warning products and practices of the National Weather 
     Service;
       ``(C) ensure that future adjustments to operational 
     protocols, processes, and warning products--
       ``(i) are made consistently across the warning system 
     operated under subsection (c); and
       ``(ii) are applied in a uniform manner across such warning 
     system;
       ``(D) establish a systematic method for information 
     technology product development to improve long-term 
     technology planning efforts; and
       ``(E) disseminate guidelines and metrics for evaluating and 
     improving tsunami forecast models.
       ``(6) Available resources.--The Administrator, through the 
     National Weather Service, shall ensure that resources are 
     available to fulfill the obligations of this Act. This 
     includes ensuring supercomputing resources are available to 
     run, as rapidly as possible, such computer models as are 
     needed for purposes of the tsunami warning system operated 
     under subsection (c).''.
       (e) Transfer of Technology; Maintenance and Upgrades.--
     Subsection (e) of section 804 (33 U.S.C. 3203(e)) is amended 
     to read as follows:
       ``(e) Transfer of Technology; Maintenance and Upgrades.--In 
     carrying out this section, the Administrator shall--
       ``(1) develop requirements for the equipment used to 
     forecast tsunami, including--
       ``(A) provisions for multipurpose detection platforms;
       ``(B) reliability and performance metrics; and
       ``(C) to the maximum extent practicable, requirements for 
     the integration of equipment with other United States and 
     global ocean and coastal observation systems, the global 
     Earth observing system of systems, the global seismic 
     networks, and the Advanced National Seismic System;
       ``(2) develop and execute a plan for the transfer of 
     technology from ongoing research conducted as part of the 
     program supported or maintained under section 6 into the 
     program under this section; and
       ``(3) ensure that the Administration's operational tsunami 
     detection equipment is properly maintained.''.
       (f) Federal Cooperation.--Subsection (f) of section 804 (33 
     U.S.C. 3203(f)) is amended to read as follows:
       ``(f) Federal Cooperation.--When deploying and maintaining 
     tsunami detection technologies under the program under this 
     section, the Administrator shall--
       ``(1) identify which assets of other Federal agencies are 
     necessary to support such program; and
       ``(2) work with each agency identified under paragraph 
     (1)--
       ``(A) to acquire the agency's assistance; and
       ``(B) to prioritize the necessary assets in support of the 
     tsunami forecast and warning program.''.
       (g) Unnecessary Provisions.--Section 804 (33 U.S.C. 3203) 
     is further amended--
       (1) by striking subsection (g);
       (2) by striking subsections (i) through (k); and
       (3) by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (g).
       (h) Congressional Notifications.--Subsection (g) of section 
     804 (33 U.S.C. 3203(g)), as redesignated by subsection 
     (g)(3), is amended--
       (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
     subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, and moving such 
     subparagraphs 2 ems to the right;
       (2) in the matter before subparagraph (A), as redesignated 
     by paragraph (2), by striking ``The Administrator'' and 
     inserting the following:
       ``(1) In general.--The Administrator'';
       (3) in paragraph (1), as redesignated by paragraph (3)--
       (A) in subparagraph (A), as redesignated by paragraph (2), 
     by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (B) in subparagraph (B), as redesignated by paragraph (2), 
     by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; and''; 
     and
       (C) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(C) the occurrence of a significant tsunami warning.''; 
     and
       (4) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(2) Contents.--In a case in which notice is submitted 
     under paragraph (1) within 30 days of a significant tsunami 
     warning described in subparagraph (C) of such paragraph, such 
     notice shall include, as appropriate, brief information and 
     analysis of--
       ``(A) the accuracy of the tsunami model used;
       ``(B) the specific deep ocean or other monitoring equipment 
     that detected the incident, as well as the deep ocean or 
     other monitoring equipment that did not detect the incident 
     due to malfunction or other reasons;
       ``(C) the effectiveness of the warning communication, 
     including the dissemination of warnings with State, 
     territory, local, and tribal partners in the affected area 
     under the jurisdiction of the National Weather Service; and
       ``(D) such other findings as the Administrator considers 
     appropriate.''.

     SEC. 505. MODIFICATION OF NATIONAL TSUNAMI HAZARD MITIGATION 
                   PROGRAM.

       (a) In General.--Section 805(a) (33 U.S.C. 3204(a)) is 
     amended to read as follows:
       ``(a) Program Required.--The Administrator, in coordination 
     with the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management 
     Agency and the heads of such other agencies as the 
     Administrator considers relevant, shall conduct a community-
     based tsunami hazard mitigation program to improve tsunami 
     preparedness and resiliency of at-risk areas in the United 
     States and the territories of the United States.''.
       (b) National Tsunami Hazard Mitigation Program.--Section 
     805 (33 U.S.C. 3204) is amended by striking subsections (c) 
     and (d) and inserting the following:
       ``(c) Program Components.--The Program conducted under 
     subsection (a) shall include the following:
       ``(1) Technical and financial assistance to coastal States, 
     territories, tribes, and local governments to develop and 
     implement activities under this section.
       ``(2) Integration of tsunami preparedness and mitigation 
     programs into ongoing State-based hazard warning, resilience 
     planning, and risk management activities, including 
     predisaster planning, emergency response, evacuation 
     planning, disaster recovery, hazard mitigation, and community 
     development and redevelopment planning programs in affected 
     areas.
       ``(3) Coordination with other Federal preparedness and 
     mitigation programs to leverage Federal investment, avoid 
     duplication, and maximize effort.
       ``(4) Activities to promote the adoption of tsunami 
     resilience, preparedness, warning, and mitigation measures by 
     Federal, State, territorial, tribal, and local governments 
     and nongovernmental entities, including educational and risk 
     communication programs to discourage development in high-risk 
     areas.
       ``(5) Activities to support the development of regional 
     tsunami hazard and risk assessments. Such regional risk 
     assessments may include the following:
       ``(A) The sources, sizes, and other relevant historical 
     data of tsunami in the region, including paleotsunami data.
       ``(B) Inundation models and maps of critical infrastructure 
     and socioeconomic vulnerability in areas subject to tsunami 
     inundation.
       ``(C) Maps of evacuation areas and evacuation routes, 
     including, when appropriate, traffic studies that evaluate 
     the viability of evacuation routes.
       ``(D) Evaluations of the size of populations that will 
     require evacuation, including populations with special 
     evacuation needs.
       ``(E) Evaluations and technical assistance for vertical 
     evacuation structure planning for communities where models 
     indicate limited or no ability for timely evacuation, 
     especially in areas at risk of near shore generated tsunami.
       ``(F) Evaluation of at-risk ports and harbors.
       ``(G) Evaluation of the effect of tsunami currents on the 
     foundations of closely-spaced, coastal high-rise structures.
       ``(6) Activities to promote preparedness in at-risk ports 
     and harbors, including the following:
       ``(A) Evaluation and recommendation of procedures for ports 
     and harbors in the event of a distant or near-field tsunami.
       ``(B) A review of readiness, response, and communication 
     strategies to ensure coordination and data sharing with the 
     Coast Guard.
       ``(7) Activities to support the development of community-
     based outreach and education programs to ensure community 
     readiness and resilience, including the following:
       ``(A) The development, implementation, and assessment of 
     technical training and public education programs, including 
     education programs that address unique characteristics of 
     distant and near-field tsunami.
       ``(B) The development of decision support tools.
       ``(C) The incorporation of social science research into 
     community readiness and resilience efforts.
       ``(D) The development of evidence-based education 
     guidelines.
       ``(8) Dissemination of guidelines and standards for 
     community planning, education, and training products, 
     programs, and tools, including--
       ``(A) standards for--
       ``(i) mapping products;
       ``(ii) inundation models; and
       ``(iii) effective emergency exercises; and
       ``(B) recommended guidance for at-risk port and harbor 
     tsunami warning, evacuation, and response procedures in 
     coordination with the Coast Guard and the Federal Emergency 
     Management Agency.
       ``(d) Authorized Activities.--In addition to activities 
     conducted under subsection (c), the program conducted under 
     subsection (a) may include the following:
       ``(1) Multidisciplinary vulnerability assessment research, 
     education, and training to help integrate risk management and 
     resilience objectives with community development planning and 
     policies.
       ``(2) Risk management training for local officials and 
     community organizations to enhance understanding and 
     preparedness.
       ``(3) In coordination with the Federal Emergency Management 
     Agency, interagency, Federal, State, tribal, and territorial 
     intergovernmental tsunami response exercise planning and 
     implementation in high risk areas.
       ``(4) Development of practical applications for existing or 
     emerging technologies, such as modeling, remote sensing, 
     geospatial technology, engineering, and observing systems, 
     including the

[[Page H2662]]

     integration of tsunami sensors into Federal and commercial 
     submarine telecommunication cables if practicable.
       ``(5) Risk management, risk assessment, and resilience data 
     and information services, including--
       ``(A) access to data and products derived from observing 
     and detection systems; and
       ``(B) development and maintenance of new integrated data 
     products to support risk management, risk assessment, and 
     resilience programs.
       ``(6) Risk notification systems that coordinate with and 
     build upon existing systems and actively engage 
     decisionmakers, State, local, tribal, and territorial 
     governments and agencies, business communities, 
     nongovernmental organizations, and the media.
       ``(e) No Preemption With Respect to Designation of At-risk 
     Areas.--The establishment of national standards for 
     inundation models under this section shall not prevent 
     States, territories, tribes, and local governments from 
     designating additional areas as being at risk based on 
     knowledge of local conditions.
       ``(f) No New Regulatory Authority.--Nothing in this Act may 
     be construed as establishing new regulatory authority for any 
     Federal agency.''.
       (c) Report on Accreditation of TsunamiReady Program.--Not 
     later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
     the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
     Administration shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee 
     on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of 
     Representatives a report on which authorities and activities 
     would be needed to have the TsunamiReady program of the 
     National Weather Service accredited by the Emergency 
     Management Accreditation Program.

     SEC. 506. MODIFICATION OF TSUNAMI RESEARCH PROGRAM.

       Section 806 (33 U.S.C. 3205) is amended--
       (1) in the matter before paragraph (1), by striking ``The 
     Administrator shall'' and all that follows through 
     ``establish or maintain'' and inserting the following:
       ``(a) In General.--The Administrator shall, in consultation 
     with such other Federal agencies, State, tribal, and 
     territorial governments, and academic institutions as the 
     Administrator considers appropriate, the coordinating 
     committee under section 805(d), and the panel under section 
     808(a), support or maintain'';
       (2) in subsection (a), as designated by paragraph (1), by 
     striking ``and assessment for tsunami tracking and numerical 
     forecast modeling. Such research program shall--'' and 
     inserting the following: ``assessment for tsunami tracking 
     and numerical forecast modeling, and standards development.
       ``(b) Responsibilities.--The research program supported or 
     maintained under subsection (a) shall--''; and
       (3) in subsection (b), as designated by paragraph (2)--
       (A) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
       ``(1) consider other appropriate and cost effective 
     solutions to mitigate the impact of tsunami, including the 
     improvement of near-field and distant tsunami detection and 
     forecasting capabilities, which may include use of a new 
     generation of the Deep-ocean Assessment and Reporting of 
     Tsunamis array, integration of tsunami sensors into 
     commercial and Federal telecommunications cables, and other 
     real-time tsunami monitoring systems and supercomputer 
     capacity of the Administration to develop a rapid tsunami 
     forecast for all United States coastlines;'';
       (B) in paragraph (3)--
       (i) by striking ``include'' and inserting ``conduct''; and
       (ii) by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (C) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5);
       (D) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
       ``(4) develop the technical basis for validation of tsunami 
     maps, numerical tsunami models, digital elevation models, and 
     forecasts; and''; and
       (E) in paragraph (5), as redesignated by subparagraph (C), 
     by striking ``to the scientific community'' and inserting 
     ``to the public and the scientific community''.

     SEC. 507. GLOBAL TSUNAMI WARNING AND MITIGATION NETWORK.

       Section 807 (33 U.S.C. 3206) is amended--
       (1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
       ``(a) Support for Development of an International Tsunami 
     Warning System.--The Administrator shall, in coordination 
     with the Secretary of State and in consultation with such 
     other agencies as the Administrator considers relevant, 
     provide technical assistance, operational support, and 
     training to the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission of 
     the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural 
     Organization, the World Meteorological Organization of the 
     United Nations, and such other international entities as the 
     Administrator considers appropriate, as part of the 
     international efforts to develop a fully functional global 
     tsunami forecast and warning system comprised of regional 
     tsunami warning networks.'';
       (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``shall'' each place it 
     appears and inserting ``may''; and
       (3) in subsection (c)--
       (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``establishing'' and 
     inserting ``supporting''; and
       (B) in paragraph (2)--
       (i) by striking ``establish'' and inserting ``support''; 
     and
       (ii) by striking ``establishing'' and inserting 
     ``supporting''.

     SEC. 508. TSUNAMI SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY ADVISORY PANEL.

       (a) In General.--The Act is further amended--
       (1) by redesignating section 808 (33 U.S.C. 3207) as 
     section 809; and
       (2) by inserting after section 807 (33 U.S.C. 3206) the 
     following:

     ``SEC. 808. TSUNAMI SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY ADVISORY PANEL.

       ``(a) Designation.--The Administrator shall designate an 
     existing working group within the Science Advisory Board of 
     the Administration to serve as the Tsunami Science and 
     Technology Advisory Panel to provide advice to the 
     Administrator on matters regarding tsunami science, 
     technology, and regional preparedness.
       ``(b) Membership.--
       ``(1) Composition.--The Panel shall be composed of no fewer 
     than 7 members selected by the Administrator from among 
     individuals from academia or State agencies who have academic 
     or practical expertise in physical sciences, social sciences, 
     information technology, coastal resilience, emergency 
     management, or such other disciplines as the Administrator 
     considers appropriate.
       ``(2) Federal employment.--No member of the Panel may be a 
     Federal employee.
       ``(c) Responsibilities.--Not less frequently than once 
     every 4 years, the Panel shall--
       ``(1) review the activities of the Administration, and 
     other Federal activities as appropriate, relating to tsunami 
     research, detection, forecasting, warning, mitigation, 
     resiliency, and preparation; and
       ``(2) submit to the Administrator and such others as the 
     Administrator considers appropriate--
       ``(A) the findings of the working group with respect to the 
     most recent review conducted under paragraph (1); and
       ``(B) such recommendations for legislative or 
     administrative action as the working group considers 
     appropriate to improve Federal tsunami research, detection, 
     forecasting, warning, mitigation, resiliency, and 
     preparation.
       ``(d) Reports to Congress.--Not less frequently than once 
     every 4 years, the Administrator shall submit to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
     Senate, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology 
     of the House of Representatives a report on the findings and 
     recommendations received by the Administrator under 
     subsection (c)(2).''.
       (b) Table of Contents Amendment.--The table of contents in 
     section 1(b) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and 
     Management Reauthorization Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-479; 
     120 Stat. 3575) is amended by striking the item relating to 
     section 808 and inserting the following:

``Sec. 808. Tsunami Science and Technology Advisory Panel.
``Sec. 809. Authorization of appropriations.''.

     SEC. 509. REPORTS.

       (a) Report on Implementation of Tsunami Warning and 
     Education Act.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the National 
     Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall submit to 
     Congress a report on the implementation of the Tsunami 
     Warning and Education Act enacted as title VIII of the 
     Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management 
     Reauthorization Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-479; 33 U.S.C. 
     3201 et seq.), as amended by this Act.
       (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
     include the following:
       (A) A detailed description of the progress made in 
     implementing sections 804(d)(6), 805(b), and 806(b)(4) of the 
     Tsunami Warning and Education Act the Magnuson-Stevens 
     Fishery Conservation and Management Reauthorization Act of 
     2006 (Public Law 109-479; 33 U.S.C. 3201 et seq.).
       (B) A description of the ways that tsunami warnings and 
     warning products issued by the Tsunami Forecasting and 
     Warning Program established under section 804 of the Tsunami 
     Warning and Education Act (33 U.S.C. 3203), as amended by 
     this Act, may be standardized and streamlined with warnings 
     and warning products for hurricanes, coastal storms, and 
     other coastal flooding events.
       (b) Report on National Efforts That Support Rapid Response 
     Following Near-shore Tsunami Events.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Administrator and the 
     Secretary of Homeland Security shall jointly, in coordination 
     with the Director of the United States Geological Survey, 
     Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the 
     Chief of the National Guard Bureau, and the heads of such 
     other Federal agencies as the Administrator considers 
     appropriate, submit to the appropriate committees of Congress 
     a report on the national efforts in effect on the day before 
     the date of the enactment of this Act that support and 
     facilitate rapid emergency response following a domestic 
     near-shore tsunami event to better understand domestic 
     effects of earthquake derived tsunami on people, 
     infrastructure, and communities in the United States.
       (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
     include the following:
       (A) A description of scientific or other measurements 
     collected on the day before the date of the enactment of this 
     Act to quickly identify and quantify lost or degraded 
     infrastructure or terrestrial formations.
       (B) A description of scientific or other measurements that 
     would be necessary to collect to quickly identify and 
     quantify lost or degraded infrastructure or terrestrial 
     formations.
       (C) Identification and evaluation of Federal, State, local, 
     tribal, territorial, and military first responder and search 
     and rescue operation centers, bases, and other facilities as 
     well as other critical response assets and infrastructure, 
     including search and rescue aircraft, located

[[Page H2663]]

     within near-shore and distant tsunami inundation areas on the 
     day before the date of the enactment of this Act.
       (D) An evaluation of near-shore tsunami response plans in 
     areas described in subparagraph (C) in effect on the day 
     before the date of the enactment of this Act, and how those 
     response plans would be affected by the loss of search and 
     rescue and first responder infrastructure described in such 
     subparagraph.
       (E) A description of redevelopment plans and reports in 
     effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this 
     Act for communities in areas that are at high-risk for near-
     shore tsunami, as well identification of States or 
     communities that do not have redevelopment plans.
       (F) Recommendations to enhance near-shore tsunami 
     preparedness and response plans, including recommended 
     responder exercises, predisaster planning, and mitigation 
     needs.
       (G) Such other data and analysis information as the 
     Administrator and the Secretary of Homeland Security consider 
     appropriate.
       (3) Appropriate committees of congress.--In this 
     subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
     means--
       (A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
     and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs of the Senate; and
       (B) the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, the 
     Committee on Homeland Security, and the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
     Representatives.

     SEC. 510. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

       Section 809 of the Act, as redesignated by section 
     _08(a)(1) of this Act, is amended--
       (1) in paragraph (4)(B), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (2) in paragraph (5)(B), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (3) by adding at the end the following:
       ``(6) $25,800,000 for each of fiscal years 2016 through 
     2021, of which--
       ``(A) not less than 27 percent of the amount appropriated 
     for each fiscal year shall be for activities conducted at the 
     State level under the tsunami hazard mitigation program under 
     section 805; and
       ``(B) not less than 8 percent of the amount appropriated 
     shall be for the tsunami research program under section 
     806.''.

     SEC. 511. OUTREACH RESPONSIBILITIES.

       The Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
     Administration, in coordination with State and local 
     emergency managers, shall develop and carry out formal 
     outreach activities to improve tsunami education and 
     awareness and foster the development of resilient 
     communities. Outreach activities may include--
       (1) the development of outreach plans to ensure the close 
     integration of tsunami warning centers supported or 
     maintained under section 804(d) of the Tsunami Warning and 
     Education Act (33 U.S.C. 3203(d)), as amended by this Act, 
     with local Weather Forecast Offices of the National Weather 
     Service and emergency managers;
       (2) working with appropriate local Weather Forecast Offices 
     to ensure they have the technical knowledge and capability to 
     disseminate tsunami warnings to the communities they serve; 
     and
       (3) evaluating the effectiveness of warnings and of 
     coordination with local Weather Forecast Offices after 
     significant tsunami events.

     SEC. 512. REPEAL OF DUPLICATE PROVISIONS OF LAW.

       (a) Repeal.--The Tsunami Warning and Education Act enacted 
     by Public Law 109-424 (120 Stat. 2902) is repealed.
       (b) Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
     to repeal, or affect in any way, the Tsunami Warning and 
     Education Act enacted as title VIII of the Magnuson-Stevens 
     Fishery Conservation and Management Reauthorization Act of 
     2006 (Public Law 109-479; 33 U.S.C. 3201 et seq.).

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Smith) and the gentlewoman from Oregon (Ms. Bonamici) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas.


                             General Leave

  Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all 
Members have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their 
remarks and include any extraneous materials on the bill under 
consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Texas?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, H.R. 353, the Weather Research and Forecasting 
Innovation Act of 2017 advances weather research and technology and 
will transform our Nation's weather industry.
  I thank the vice chairman of the Science Committee, Mr. Lucas, for 
sponsoring this legislation.
  We must better understand short-term weather events so that we can 
better protect lives and property. Severe weather routinely affects 
large portions of the United States. Nearly every year, we witness the 
devastating effects of tornadoes and intense storms across our country. 
This bill will ensure that Americans are more protected from severe 
weather because of accurate supercomputing, forecasts, and earlier 
warnings.
  H.R. 353 directs the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
NOAA, to prioritize its research to improve weather data, modeling, 
computing, forecasting, and warnings. This enables NOAA to support its 
core mission of protecting lives and property.
  The bill strengthens NOAA's ability to study the underlying 
atmospheric science while simultaneously advancing innovative 
technologies and reforming operations to provide better weather data 
models and forecasts.
  Also, the legislation creates a tornado research program to develop 
more accurate, effective, and timely tornado forecasts. This program 
will increase our understanding of these deadly events, just as the 
Hurricane Forecast Improvement Program advanced our ability to predict 
and forecast hurricanes.
  The bill improves weather observation systems through the use of 
observing system simulation experiments and next generation computing 
and modeling capabilities. These requirements will help ensure we use 
the best and most appropriate technologies to protect our country from 
severe weather. It prompts NOAA to actively embrace new commercial data 
and private sector weather solutions through a multiyear commercial 
weather data pilot program. Further, it directs NOAA to seriously 
consider commercial data options rather than rely on slow, costly, and 
often delayed government-owned satellites.
  For far too long, our government has relied on these massive 
multibillion-dollar government weather satellites. The government has 
failed to consider other options that could help strengthen our weather 
industry. The Science Committee has jurisdiction over NOAA's satellite 
office and conducts ongoing oversight of the agency's satellite 
program. Our conclusion is that NOAA is in need of real reform.
  Over the years, events at NOAA have revealed mismanagement, cost 
overruns, and launching delays of its weather satellites. This detracts 
from our ability to accurately predict our own weather, which places 
Americans in harm's way. It is also a tremendous burden to taxpayers 
who have to pay the massive bills for these satellites. This is a waste 
of resources that should be put to better use.
  This bill gives NOAA a new vision and allows NOAA the flexibility to 
buy new, affordable, and potentially better sources of data from the 
private sector. With more and better options, we can finally have the 
power to make real improvements to our weather forecasting 
capabilities. This is long overdue.
  The bill also creates a much-needed technology transfer fund in 
NOAA's research office to help push technologies into operation. This 
ensures that the technologies that are developed are effectively 
employed and do not sit idly on the lab bench.
  I again thank the gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr. Lucas) and I thank the 
former Environment Subcommittee chairman, Mr. Bridenstine, for their 
initiative on this issue. I also want to thank Senator Thune for 
helping produce bipartisan and bicameral legislation that will protect 
all Americans from harmful weather events. Americans from coast to 
coast will now be better prepared for severe weather with the passage 
of this bill.
  Recently, we have seen the devastating effects of severe weather 
across our country, especially in Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Missouri, 
Kansas, Alabama, and Mississippi, among other States. This bill will 
help these residents be better prepared so that they can protect their 
property and their families.
  I urge my colleagues to support this bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 353, the Weather Research and 
Forecasting Innovation Act, which also includes the Tsunami Warning, 
Education, and Research Act.
  The Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act is a product of 
hard work and negotiation over the past two Congresses. I want to thank

[[Page H2664]]

Congressman Frank Lucas, Chairman Lamar Smith, and former Environment 
Subcommittee Chairs Jim Bridenstine and Chris Stewart, who were great 
partners in getting us here today.
  The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration is responsible 
for important work at the cutting edge of science and public service. 
Weather forecasting is one of the most critical tasks for our country. 
At a time when budget uncertainty jeopardizes some of the most 
fundamental services NOAA provides to our Nation, it is imperative that 
we support legislation like H.R. 353 to give the agency the resources 
and flexibility needed to fulfill its mission.
  The northwest Oregon communities I represent and communities across 
the country rely on timely and accurate weather forecasts to decide 
when to harvest their crops, when to go to sea to fish, how to navigate 
the roads safely when there is freezing rain or snow and to prepare for 
possible flood conditions.
  The National Weather Service provides excellent forecasting products 
to support our economy, but with the increasing frequency and severity 
of severe weather events, there can be and should be improvements in 
our forecasting capabilities and delivery. Improvements in forecasts 
can provide more lead time to allow communities to prepare, especially 
in severe weather events. More effective communication of forecast 
information to the public and those in harm's way can reduce the loss 
of life and property.
  This bill connects the research side of NOAA--the Office of Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Research--more effectively to the forecasting needs of 
the National Weather Service, cultivating a research-to-operations 
pipeline that is essential for the continued improvement of our weather 
forecasting enterprise. The bill contains several provisions that will 
improve interactions and information sharing between NOAA's researchers 
and the National Weather Service. It improves communication between 
NOAA and the broader research and private weather communities. The bill 
also formally establishes the pilot program currently operating at NOAA 
to engage in contracts with the commercial sector for weather 
forecasting data.
  Even the best forecasts will not adequately serve the public's needs 
unless there are effective communication systems in place. H.R. 353 
directs NOAA to do more research, listen to experts, and improve its 
risk communication techniques.
  The bill also establishes interagency coordination through the Office 
of Science and Technology Policy across multiple agencies outside NOAA 
that share responsibilities for weather research and forecast 
communications. This is essential, and it highlights the important role 
the Office of Science and Technology Policy and NOAA share to help 
speed the adoption of best tools and practices across the various 
agencies of the Federal Government.
  The legislation before us today also includes the Tsunami Warning, 
Education, and Research Act, legislation I have introduced over the 
past three Congresses. The Tsunami Warning, Education, and Research Act 
seeks to improve our country's understanding of the threat posed by 
tsunami events by improving forecasting and notification systems, 
developing supportive technologies, and supporting local community 
outreach preparedness and response plans. This bill helps to address 
the risk faced by communities on both coasts and in the Gulf of Mexico 
by improving our mitigation and research program and enhancing 
community outreach and planning.
  Many, if not most, of my colleagues represent districts that have 
experienced some kind of natural disaster. The threat of a catastrophic 
earthquake and tsunami is real because of the Cascadia Subduction Zone. 
West Coast Members take this threat very seriously.
  I have heard from coastal communities, people who fish, the tourism 
and maritime industries, marine and public safety officials, sheriffs, 
emergency managers, small-business owners, older Americans, and 
students who are concerned that their communities are not prepared for 
a tsunami.
  Students at Seaside High School, a coastal community in my district, 
engaged in a year-long project to educate Oregonians about the threat a 
tsunami has on lives and property. Three of the four public schools in 
Seaside are still located inside the tsunami inundation zone. The high 
school students have practiced their evacuation route, and they know 
that, in the projected time between a major earthquake and the 
devastating wave of a tsunami, they couldn't make it to higher ground. 
That is unacceptable.
  The University of Oregon and Oregon State University are working on 
seismic warning systems and tsunami preparedness to help make sure that 
our communities are prepared and have the best research available to 
give the most warning time possible, and this bill compliments their 
work.
  I am proud to have worked on this legislation which is so important 
to the people of northwest Oregon and all coastal communities, but I do 
remain very concerned that the funding level is below current spending. 
This cut would have serious consequences. The operation and maintenance 
funding for the buoy network we rely on to detect tsunami could 
decrease, adding hours of delay in appropriately warning coastal 
communities.
  Tsunami warning centers in Alaska and Hawaii are likely to see a 
reduction in staff, resulting in gaps in coverage and creating greater 
risks because of time delays in sending out accurate warnings and, in 
some instances, not being able to provide adequate warning at all.
  Tsunami are among the most deadly natural disasters. In the past two 
decades, tsunami have caused the deaths of roughly a quarter million 
people around the world. These disasters also have profound economic 
consequences. The 2001 tsunami in Japan caused more than $200 billion 
in economic losses.
  We are fortunate, in the United States, to have been spared these 
catastrophes so far.

                              {time}  1445

  But our coastlines, from the Gulf of Mexico to Alaska, are very 
susceptible to the same kind of disasters we have seen in Indonesia and 
in Japan. It is not a matter of if, it is a matter of when.
  Tsunami program activities protect coastal Oregonians just as 
hurricane forecasting protects coastal Floridians, Carolinians, and 
others up and down the East Coast of the United States. It is important 
that we reauthorize these lifesaving activities, and just as important 
to provide the necessary funding to support them.
  I will work tirelessly with my colleagues to make sure this program 
receives the full funding it needs to serve our communities and save 
lives and property.
  Although there are always areas where we can do more, this underlying 
bill, the Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act, with the 
tsunami bill, is a good bipartisan agreement and one that I am proud to 
support while continuing to ask for current levels of funding.
  I ask my colleagues to join me in voting ``yes'' on H.R. 353.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman 
from Oklahoma (Mr. Lucas), who is the vice chairman of the Science, 
Space, and Technology Committee, and also the sponsor of this 
legislation.
  Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the gentleman from Texas, 
Chairman Smith, for his continued leadership on the Science, Space, and 
Technology Committee, and for bringing forward this important 
legislation.
  H.R. 353, the Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act of 
2017, prioritizes improving weather forecasting for the protection of 
lives and property at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration. This is a core program of the agency that has been in 
need of improved direction and investment for years.
  The bill directs NOAA to develop plans to restore our country's 
leadership in weather forecasting. It is no secret that many people in 
our weather community are distraught that our forecasting capacities 
have deteriorated in recent years. Some even say that America no longer 
has the best weather prediction system in the world. In fact, we 
routinely rely on forecasts of other countries to predict what will 
happen in this country. This

[[Page H2665]]

is unacceptable, but I am glad we are here today to pass legislation 
that will dramatically improve our weather forecasting system.
  The bill before us today enhances our ability to predict severe 
weather by focusing research and computing resources on improved 
weather forecasting, quantitative observing data planning, next 
generation modeling, and an emphasis on research-to-operations 
technology transfer.
  As a Representative from Oklahoma, I understand the need for accurate 
and timely weather predictions firsthand. Every year, the loss of life 
from deadly tornadoes in my home State are a stark reminder that we can 
do better to predict severe weather events and provide longer lead 
times to protect Americans in harm's way.
  I am proud that this legislation has a dedicated tornado warning 
improvement program. The goal of this program is to reduce the loss of 
life from tornadoes by advancing the understanding of fundamental 
meteorological science. This will allow detection and notifications of 
severe weather that are more accurate, effective, and timely. 
Constituents in my home State will benefit greatly from longer tornado 
warning lead times, which will save lives and better protect property.
  Being better prepared for severe weather events is of the utmost 
important. The bill will improve our forecasting by encouraging 
innovations and new technologies through a joint technology transfer 
fund at NOAA's Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research. This 
transfer is essential to get new forecasting, models, and technologies 
out of the research side of NOAA and into the operational forecasts to 
better protect our country.
  Furthermore, the legislation will enhance our forecasting by 
directing NOAA to engage new commercial data and private sector 
solutions. This legislation includes a pilot project, which will 
provide NOAA a clear demonstration of the valuable data from commercial 
technologies. The private sector has the potential to aid our 
forecasting skill while reducing government cost with innovative 
solutions. In order to increase our weather skills, we must not limit 
ourselves by solely relying on government data.
  This legislation packs in multiple efforts to protect lives and 
property from severe weather. From encouraging new technologies both 
inside and outside of NOAA to the careful planning and prioritization 
of weather research, this legislation will put our country back on 
track to be a world leader in weather prediction.
  The time has come for Americans to have the most accurate and timely 
weather predictions. They deserve nothing less.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote for the bill.
  Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as she may consume to 
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson), the ranking 
member of the Science, Space, and Technology Committee.
  Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of 
H.R. 353, the Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act of 2017.
  Climate and weather are not fundamentally partisan concerns; they 
affect all of our constituents, regardless of their party affiliation. 
The bill we are considering today, which is the culmination of more 
than 4 years of bipartisan compromise and negotiation, demonstrates 
what can be accomplished when we work together to address the concerns 
of our constituents.
  Mr. Speaker, weather affects all of us each and every day. It is a 
constant presence in our lives. Extreme weather events, which are 
becoming more severe and more frequent, are damaging lives and property 
in my home State of Texas, across the continental U.S., and all the way 
to the islands of Hawaii.
  Sadly, the devastation caused by tornadoes, hurricanes, and other 
severe weather incidents have become a far more familiar occurrence 
and, really, too much of it for far more Americans. It should go 
without saying that we need to help Americans avoid and cope with these 
potentially devastating events by utilizing the very best weather 
forecasting and warning capabilities.
  In that regard, the National Weather Service and the Office of 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Research, or NOAA, play a central role in 
protecting the lives and property of every American. H.R. 353 will help 
accelerate innovation that NOAA can make use of, turning cutting-edge 
weather research into essential weather forecasting tools and products; 
tools the forecasters can then use to protect American lives.
  The legislation improves collaboration and cooperation within NOAA 
and removes barriers that exist between the weather research community, 
our Nation's forecasters, and the private sector weather enterprise. 
Improving these relationships will strengthen the accuracy and timing 
of our weather predictions and, ultimately, will save lives and make 
our communities safer.
  H.R. 353 also reauthorizes NOAA's tsunami warning activities. 
Communities along our Western Coasts are particularly impacted by the 
threat of tsunamis. While this bill reauthorizes tsunami warning and 
research activities at NOAA, it does so at a level far below current 
agency spending. Such a cut makes little sense. Even in a tough fiscal 
climate, we should be wary of cuts to programs that negatively affect 
our ability to protect American lives and property from natural 
disasters.
  I want to applaud Environment Subcommittee Ranking Member Suzanne 
Bonamici for her fight to retain funding for these programs at their 
current level, and I hope that we can work together with our colleagues 
to maintain current tsunami funding when it comes time for 
appropriations.
  Mr. Speaker, strengthening our resilience to severe weather events is 
both vital and necessary to strengthen our Nation's economic security. 
H.R. 353 will advance our weather forecasting capabilities, and I urge 
my colleagues to support its passage.
  Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Arizona (Mr. Biggs), who is the chairman of the Environment 
Subcommittee.
  Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Texas, Chairman 
Smith, for yielding me time to speak on this important legislation.
  It has become increasingly apparent with every major weather event 
that our forecasting services are desperately in need of a major 
overhaul. I am happy to support legislation that will do just that.
  H.R. 353, the Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act, will 
put our country's weather forecasting back on track to provide citizens 
with lifesaving predictions and warnings.
  I specifically point to this bill's innovative language on weather 
technology planning. H.R. 353 calls on NOAA to evaluate the combination 
of observing systems it needs to meet weather forecasting requirements. 
It also requires the agency to conduct experiments on different 
observing systems to evaluate their costs and benefits.
  Such reforms will grant NOAA more flexibility to develop new 
technologies while scrapping older approaches that do not bring enough 
value to our forecasts. We need to better assess our observing system 
resources instead of continuing to rely on outdated methods.
  This bill will help push NOAA to consider new approaches, including 
those from the private sector. For its part, the growing private sector 
has signaled it is ready and willing to work with NOAA to bring better 
weather forecasting to our citizens, and we should welcome this 
development.
  I am confident that H.R. 353 will create the kind of meaningful 
change that we want to see at NOAA. This bill will better protect 
American lives and property with more accurate weather forecasting. I 
applaud the sponsors. I encourage all Members to support this bill.
  Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from North Carolina (Mr. Pittenger), who is also a member of the 
Financial Services Committee.
  Mr. PITTENGER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for his exceptional 
leadership on this very important legislation.
  In 2012, 7-year-old Jamal Stevens was in his bed when a tornado tore 
through the house, tossing him onto the embankment along Interstate 
485, hundreds of feet from his room.
  The warning from the National Weather Service came 10 minutes later,

[[Page H2666]]

after the tornado had already touched down. This is because my hometown 
of Charlotte relies on radar nearly 100 miles away, meaning that the 
National Weather Service is using weak or inaccurate readings when 
issuing crucial safety warnings for Charlotteans.
  In 2013, the current system provided a tornado warning, but for 
citizens in an entirely wrong neighborhood. More recently, a tornado in 
December of 2015 struck neighboring Union County with no warning from 
the National Weather Service.
  Fortunately, our region has not suffered any fatalities due to the 
inadequate coverage, but we shouldn't wait for tragedy to act.
  The Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act requires the 
Commerce Department to identify weak coverage areas and identify 
solutions to the problem by improving existing government radars or 
incorporating non-Federal radars into the National Weather Service's 
operations.
  Americans across the country rely on the National Weather Service to 
detect and provide warning for severe weather such as thunderstorms and 
tornadoes. But Charlotte is currently the largest metropolitan area 
without an adequate radar coverage. Addressing this shortcoming is an 
important step for public safety.
  With that in mind, I do urge my colleagues to support H.R. 353. I 
thank the chairman so much for his support on this critical 
legislation.

  Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve the balance of my 
time.
  Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Louisiana (Mr. Higgins), who is a very active member of the 
Science, Space, and Technology Committee.
  Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from 
Texas, Chairman Smith, for yielding me time to highlight my support for 
H.R. 353, the Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act of 2017.
  This past weekend, deadly storms ravaged Louisiana's Third District, 
my district, tragically taking the lives of Francine Gotch and her 3-
year-old daughter, Nevaeh Alexander, when their singlewide trailer 
flipped during high winds produced by a tornado.
  The United States was once at the forefront of weather forecasting; 
however, that ability has diminished over the years with the 
capabilities of some other countries now paralleling or even exceeding 
our own.
  I do not know if a better weather forecasting service would have made 
a difference this past weekend. However, as elected officials, we must 
make it a priority to protect American lives and property to the 
fullest extent.

                              {time}  1500

  We must never waver in this most significant responsibility. This 
legislation will put America back on track to lead the world in 
accurately predicting severe weather events with a renewed focus on 
increasing weather research and placing new technologies into 
operation.
  More specifically, this bill also creates a tornado forecasting 
improvement program to develop more accurate, effective, and timely 
tornado forecasts that will allow for increased tornado warning lead 
times, which is crucial to saving lives and would perhaps have saved 
the lives of that mother and her young daughter this past weekend.
  Mr. Speaker, with the number of hurricanes, floods, and tornadoes 
that have hit Louisiana in the last few decades, my constituency knows 
all too well the danger that mother nature can pose, as well as the 
need for reliable information to adequately prepare for such 
occurrences.
  Constituents in my district need good, commonsense legislation like 
this to protect their families and their property. I applaud the 
efforts of the Science, Space, and Technology Committee Chairman Smith 
and Representative Lucas for leading this effort to protect Americans 
from severe weather.
  Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Indiana (Mr. Banks) who is the vice chairman of the Environment 
Subcommittee.
  Mr. BANKS of Indiana. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for his 
leadership on important issues like these.
  Unfortunately, my home State of Indiana is no stranger to severe 
weather. As we enter peak tornado season, my constituents are 
vulnerable to tornado outbreaks which could lead to loss of life and 
destruction. Protecting lives and property from severe weather needs to 
be a top priority at NOAA. I am glad we are addressing this issue for 
that reason today.
  This legislation will greatly improve our ability to predict severe 
weather, like the tornadoes that affect my district, through a focused 
program to enhance forecasting. When mere seconds make the difference 
between life and death, my constituents deserve the most accurate and 
timely forecasts available, and I am confident that this legislation 
will help give them that information.
  I am also pleased that this bill gives NOAA the ability to 
incorporate data and forecasting skill from private sector companies 
like Harris Corporation in northeast Indiana, which employs about 450 
engineers and technicians in my district. These talented professionals 
build the world's most advanced weather satellite instruments.
  Many government-operated systems are slow and costly, and the private 
sector can be used to fill critical weather data needs. Directing NOAA 
to integrate next-generation commercial solutions improves our ability 
to protect lives and property.
  The time to think outside of the government-only-weather-data box is 
now. That is why I applaud the chairman of the Science, Space, and 
Technology Committee, Mr. Smith, as well as my colleague from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lucas) for bringing this important legislation to the forefront. I 
look forward to its passage into law.
  Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, in addition to thanking all my colleagues on both sides 
of the aisle who have worked so hard on this legislation, I want to 
take a moment, also, to thank all of the staff in our offices and 
committee on both sides of the aisle who worked so hard on this 
legislation.
  I encourage all my colleagues to support the Weather Research and 
Forecasting Innovation Act, which includes the Tsunami Warning, 
Education, and Research Act. This legislation will improve weather 
forecasting and tsunami preparedness.
  Mr. Speaker, I encourage everyone to support this bipartisan 
legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, this bill is the culmination of hard work and 
negotiations that have spanned 5 years. Today, we finalize this House-
initiated weather policy reform legislation that will benefit residents 
throughout the United States. H.R. 353 greatly improves our ability to 
predict short-term severe weather events. It better protects lives and 
property, a core mission of NOAA that has needed greater attention in 
recent years.
  Again, I want to thank Mr. Lucas and Mr. Bridenstine for their 
initiative on this issue. I thank the former Environment Subcommittee 
chairman, Representative Chris Stewart, for his years of commitment to 
this subject as well.
  I especially appreciate Ms. Bonamici and her 5 years of effort to 
make this a bipartisan bill. I would like to thank the Science, Space, 
and Technology Subcommittee on Environment staff for their years of 
effort on this bill, especially Taylor Jordan, who worked diligently to 
ensure that this bill became a reality. I also recognize the minority 
staff who were central to the process as well.
  Mr. Speaker, this legislation will transform our weather forecasting 
ability. It ensures that we, once again, have a world-class forecasting 
system that will protect lives and property from the dangers of severe 
weather.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the bill, and I yield 
back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. Smith) that the House suspend the rules and 
concur in the Senate amendment to the bill, H.R. 353.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the

[[Page H2667]]

rules were suspended and the Senate amendment was concurred in.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



