

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S867]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr. Portman):
       S. 321. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to exempt amounts paid for aircraft management services from 
     the excise taxes imposed on transportation by air; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr. Heller):
       S. 322. A bill to protect victims of domestic violence, 
     sexual assault, stalking, and dating violence from emotional 
     and psychological trauma caused by acts of violence or 
     threats of violence against their pets; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. FLAKE:
       S. 323. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to create Universal Savings Accounts; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself, Ms. Hirono, and Mr. 
             Boozman):
       S. 324. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the provision of adult day health care services for 
     veterans; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Ms. Warren, Mr. Reed, 
             Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Whitehouse, and Mr. 
             Franken):
       S. 325. A bill to permanently extend the Protecting Tenants 
     at Foreclosure Act of 2009; to the Committee on Banking, 
     Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. HELLER (for himself, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Cassidy, 
             Mr. Bennet, Mr. Gardner, and Mr. Young):
       S. 326. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide for the tax-exempt financing of certain 
     government-owned buildings; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. HELLER (for himself and Mr. Peters):
       S. 327. A bill to direct the Securities and Exchange 
     Commission to provide a safe harbor related to certain 
     investment fund research reports, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. BOOKER:
       S. 328. A bill to enforce the Sixth Amendment right to the 
     assistance of effective counsel at all stages of the 
     adversarial process, to confer jurisdiction upon the district 
     courts of the United States to provide declaratory and 
     injunctive relief against systemic violations of such right, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr. Paul, Mr. Durbin, Mr. 
             Lee, Mr. Lankford, and Mr. Casey):
       S. 329. A bill to place restrictions on the use of solitary 
     confinement for juveniles in Federal custody; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BOOKER:
       S. 330. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     establish a corporation to advocate on behalf of individuals 
     in noncapital criminal cases before the Supreme Court of the 
     United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. KAINE:
       S. 331. A bill to remove the use restrictions on certain 
     land transferred to Rockingham County, Virginia, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. COTTON:
       S. 332. A bill to restrict funding for the Preparatory 
     Commission for the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty 
     Organization, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Hatch, 
             Mr. Cruz, Mr. Flake, Mr. Crapo, Mr. Johnson, and Mr. 
             Lee):
       S. 333. A bill to limit donations made pursuant to 
     settlement agreements to which the United States is a party, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. INHOFE (for himself, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Paul, Mr. 
             Cruz, Mr. Lankford, Mr. Scott, Mrs. Capito, Mr. 
             Tillis, and Mr. Cotton):
       S. 334. A bill to clarify that a State has the sole 
     authority to regulate hydraulic fracturing on Federal land 
     within the boundaries of the State; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. INHOFE (for himself, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Cruz, Mr. 
             Lankford, Mr. Crapo, and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 335. A bill to achieve domestic energy independence by 
     empowering States to control the development and production 
     of all forms of energy on all available Federal land; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. Sanders, Mrs. Murray, 
             and Mr. Merkley):
       S. 336. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     modify authorities relating to the collective bargaining of 
     employees in the Veterans Health Administration, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Booker, 
             Ms. Hirono, Mr. Markey, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Schatz, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Reed, Mr. Blumenthal, 
             Ms. Warren, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Murphy, Mr. 
             Udall, Mr. Schumer, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Franken, Mrs. 
             Feinstein, Ms. Heitkamp, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Van Hollen, 
             Mr. Leahy, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Menendez, and Ms. 
             Harris):
       S. 337. A bill to provide paid family and medical leave 
     benefits to certain individuals, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. NELSON (for himself, Mr. Peters, Mr. Schatz, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Udall, Mr. Coons, Mrs. Gillibrand, 
             Mr. Merkley, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Whitehouse, Ms. 
             Baldwin, Mr. Reed, Mr. Heinrich, Mrs. Feinstein, Ms. 
             Warren, Ms. Hassan, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Markey, Mr. 
             Booker, Ms. Cantwell, Mr. Warner, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. 
             Franken, Mr. Cardin, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Carper, and Ms. 
             Cortez Masto):
       S. 338. A bill to protect scientific integrity in Federal 
     research and policymaking, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. NELSON (for himself and Ms. Collins):
       S. 339. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     repeal the requirement for reduction of survivor annuities 
     under the Survivor Benefit Plan by veterans' dependency and 
     indemnity compensation, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. CRAPO (for himself, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. 
             Barrasso, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Donnelly, Mr. 
             Enzi, Mrs. Ernst, Mrs. Fischer, Mr. Flake, Ms. 
             Heitkamp, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Moran, Mr. Risch, Mr. 
             Roberts, and Mr. Thune):
       S. 340. A bill to clarify Congressional intent regarding 
     the regulation of the use of pesticides in or near navigable 
     waters, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.

                          ____________________



