

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 26 (Tuesday, February 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 26 (Tuesday, February 14, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H1129]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  HONORING THE BOY SCOUTS ON 107 YEARS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate 
the 107th birthday of an organization near and dear to my heart: the 
Boy Scouts of America.
  On May 17, 1977, I became an Eagle Scout myself as a member of Boy 
Scout Troop 52, Walker Township, Pennsylvania. Over the years, I have 
proudly held various leadership roles with Boy Scout troops in 
Pennsylvania, including two separate stints as scoutmaster of Troop 353 
in Howard.
  One of my greatest honors was to witness 29 young men achieve the 
rank of Eagle Scout during my time as scoutmaster. The Boy Scouts of 
America is the largest Scouting organization in the United States, one 
of the largest youth organizations in the world. It boasts more than 
2.4 million youth participants and more than 1 million adult 
volunteers.
  Mr. Speaker, at its core, Scouting encourages that we leave this 
world a little bit better than how we found it. This value-based youth 
development organization provides programs for young people that build 
character, trains them in the responsibilities of participating 
citizenship, and develops personal fitness, personal self-reliance.
  The Boy Scouts of America has helped build future leaders by 
combining educational activities and lifelong values with fun. The Boy 
Scouts of America believes--and, through over a century of experience, 
knows--that helping youth is a key to building a more conscientious, 
responsible, and productive society.
  Scouting focuses on moral character development, citizenship 
training, and development of physical, mental, and emotional fitness. 
Scouting promotes serving others every day in ways big and small. These 
values are something all of us can respect and admire. Family 
involvement is an essential part of the program, and parents are 
encouraged to play an active role in making the most of the short time 
they have to impact the lives of their children.
  Scouting is designed to be experienced outdoors. Hiking, camping, 
mountain biking, skateboarding, BMX, mountain climbing, kayaking, 
white-water rafting--these are just some of a Scout's outdoor 
experiences.
  The Scouting program is delivered through local civic, faith-based, 
and educational institutions called charter organizations, which 
operate Scouting units to deliver the programs to their youth members 
as well as the community at large. These organizations are dedicated to 
helping youth learn and grow, and I have enthusiastically been involved 
in Scouting for decades.
  Boy Scouts offer more than 130 merit badges, from archery and art to 
welding and wilderness survival. Scouting is the ultimate form of 
learning by doing. Boy Scouts explore their interests and improve their 
skills while working towards Scouting's highest rank: Eagle. By first 
imaging, planning, then doing their own service projects, Boy Scouts 
learn the value of hard work and experience the thrill of seeing it pay 
off. Add in outdoor adventures, hiking, and camping, and Scouting gives 
boys all the experiences they need to become fine men.
  The Venturing program, which is a co-ed division of the Boy Scouts, 
is geared towards men and women, ages 14 to 20. Venturing's motto 
``Lead the Adventure'' is truly geared towards the pursuit of 
adventure: exploring new places with friends and accomplishing 
challenges together. There are currently 158,000 Venturers and 58,000 
adult volunteers with the Venturing program in the United States.
  Mr. Speaker, I cannot be more proud of this organization and the way 
it helps shape young lives. Happy birthday, Boy Scouts of America. 
Thank you for the wisdom that you have imparted in millions of 
Americans.

                          ____________________



