

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 26 (Tuesday, February 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 26 (Tuesday, February 14, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1183-H1184]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois:
       H.R. 1029. A bill to amend the Federal Insecticide, 
     Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act to improve pesticide 
     registration and other activities under the Act, to extend 
     and modify fee authorities, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina:
       H.R. 1030. A bill to direct the Director of National 
     Intelligence to conduct a study on cyber attack standards of 
     measurement; to the Committee on Intelligence (Permanent 
     Select).
           By Mr. RATCLIFFE (for himself, Mr. Walker, Mr. Rice of 
             South Carolina, Mr. Palmer, Mr. Amash, Mr. Gohmert, 
             Mr. Biggs, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Westerman, Mr. 
             Hurd, Mr. Perry, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. Hudson, 
             and Mr. King of Iowa):
       H.R. 1031. A bill to eliminate the Bureau of Consumer 
     Financial Protection by repealing title X of the Dodd-Frank 
     Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, commonly 
     known as the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. BYRNE:
       H.R. 1032. A bill to expand the eligibility of veterans for 
     hospital care and medical services provided by non-Department 
     of Veterans Affairs medical providers under the Veterans 
     Choice Program; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia (for himself, Ms. Cheney, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mr. Chaffetz, Mr. Schrader, Mr. Gosar, Mr. 
             Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Labrador, and Mr. 
             Peterson):
       H.R. 1033. A bill to amend titles 5 and 28, United States 
     Code, to require the maintenance of databases on, awards of 
     fees and other expenses to prevailing parties in certain 
     administrative proceedings and court cases to which the 
     United States is a party, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself, Ms. Lee, Mr. Quigley, Mr. 
             Cartwright, and Ms. Norton):
       H.R. 1034. A bill to authorize the Administrator of the 
     Environmental Protection Agency to award grants for municipal 
     solid waste prevention, reuse, and recycling program 
     development, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Ryan 
             of Ohio, Mrs. Mimi Walters of California, Ms. Clark 
             of Massachusetts, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. 
             Rodney Davis of Illinois, and Mr. Moulton):
       H.R. 1035. A bill to extend the civil statute of 
     limitations for victims of Federal sex offenses; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. O'ROURKE (for himself, Mr. Pearce, and Mr. 
             Swalwell of California):
       H.R. 1036. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to promote family unity, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. LYNCH (for himself, Mr. King of New York, Mr. 
             Ruiz, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. 
             Heck, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Walz, Mr. 
             McGovern, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Keating, and Mr. 
             Kennedy):
       H.R. 1037. A bill to authorize the National Emergency 
     Medical Services Memorial Foundation to establish a 
     commemorative work in the District of Columbia and its 
     environs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH (for himself, Mr. Welch, Mr. Collins of 
             Georgia, Mr. Jones, Mrs. McMorris Rodgers, Mr. Blum, 
             Mr. Crawford, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Babin, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Barletta, Mr. 
             Massie, Mr. Harper, Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. 
             Doggett, and Mrs. Roby):
       H.R. 1038. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to prohibit prescription drug plan sponsors and 
     MA-PD organizations under the Medicare program from 
     retroactively reducing payment on clean claims submitted by 
     pharmacies; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. REICHERT (for himself and Mr. Pascrell):
       H.R. 1039. A bill to amend section 3606 of title 18, United 
     States Code, to grant probation officers authority to arrest 
     hostile third parties who obstruct or impede a probation 
     officer in the performance of official duties; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BURGESS (for himself and Mr. Farenthold):
       H.R. 1040. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide taxpayers a flat tax alternative to the 
     current income tax system; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, and in addition to the Committee on Rules, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 1041. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to deny the refundable portion of the child tax credit 
     to individuals who are not authorized to be employed in the 
     United States and to terminate the use of certifying 
     acceptance agents to facilitate the application process for 
     ITINs; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. GOSAR (for himself, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. Duncan 
             of South Carolina, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. 
             Franks of Arizona, Mr. Hensarling, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
             Rice of South Carolina, Mr. Schweikert, and Mr. 
             Stewart):
       H.R. 1042. A bill to require that the prevailing wage 
     utilized for purposes of subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 
     40, United States Code (commonly referred to as the Davis-
     Bacon Act), be determined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics; 
     to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. DEUTCH:
       H.R. 1043. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     limit the recovery of damages in a civil action related to 
     the disclosure of certain personal information from State 
     motor vehicle records, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 1044. A bill to amend the Help America Vote Act of 
     2002 to require States to provide for same day registration; 
     to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. GIBBS (for himself, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. 
             McKinley, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. 
             Long, Mr. Fleischmann, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Amodei, Mr. 
             Bost, Mr. Bucshon, Mr. Renacci, Mr. Weber of Texas, 
             Mr. Turner, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Young of Alaska, Mr. 
             Gosar, Mr. Hensarling, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Rice of South 
             Carolina, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Harris, Mr. Duncan of 
             South Carolina, Mr. Dunn, Mr. Bergman, Mr. Wenstrup, 
             Mr. McClintock, Mr. Brat, Mr. Graves of Missouri, Mr. 
             Olson, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Babin, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. 
             Gohmert, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, and Mr. Young of Iowa):
       H.R. 1045. A bill to protect the right of individuals to 
     bear arms at water resources development projects 
     administered by the Secretary of the Army, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. GUTHRIE (for himself and Ms. Castor of Florida):
       H.R. 1046. A bill to enable concrete masonry products 
     manufacturers to establish, finance, and carry out a 
     coordinated program of research, education, and promotion to 
     improve, maintain, and develop markets for concrete masonry 
     products; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. JODY B. HICE of Georgia (for himself, Mr. 
             Rothfus, Mr. Graves of Georgia, Mr. Meadows, Mr. 
             Farenthold, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. 
             DeSantis, Mr. Jones, and Mr. Franks of Arizona):

[[Page H1184]]

  

       H.R. 1047. A bill to require the Bureau of Alcohol, 
     Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives to make video recordings of 
     the examination and testing of firearms and ammunition, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa:
       H.R. 1048. A bill to direct the President to impose duties 
     on merchandise from the People's Republic of China in an 
     amount equivalent to the estimated annual loss of revenue to 
     holders of United States intellectual property rights as a 
     result of violations of such intellectual property rights in 
     China, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself, Mr. Coffman, Mr. 
             LoBiondo, and Mrs. Davis of California):
       H.R. 1049. A bill to enhance the database of emergency 
     response capabilities of the Department of Defense; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. LARSEN of Washington (for himself, Mr. Tonko, 
             Ms. Norton, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Khanna, Mr. 
             Thompson of California, Mr. Keating, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Ms. Speier, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. 
             Judy Chu of California, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Velazquez, 
             Mr. Pocan, Mr. Langevin, Mr. McNerney, Ms. Slaughter, 
             Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. Titus, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. Esty, 
             Mr. Nolan, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, 
             Mr. Heck, Ms. Eshoo, Ms. DelBene, Ms. Castor of 
             Florida, and Mr. Hastings):
       H.R. 1050. A bill to establish a pilot program to promote 
     public-private partnerships among apprenticeships or other 
     job training programs, local educational agencies, and 
     community colleges, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. McSALLY (for herself, Mr. Wittman, Mr. Olson, 
             Mr. MacArthur, Mr. Tiberi, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, Mr. 
             Bishop of Michigan, Ms. Sinema, and Mr. Webster of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 1051. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to repeal the increase in the income threshold used in 
     determining the deduction for medical care; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. MENG (for herself and Mr. Mast):
       H.R. 1052. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to develop best practices for caring for high-risk 
     military occupation veterans as part of the evaluation of 
     mental health care and suicide prevention programs 
     administered by the Secretary; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. NADLER:
       H.R. 1053. A bill to amend chapter 111 of title 28, United 
     States Code, relating to protective orders, sealing of cases, 
     disclosures of discovery information in civil actions, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. QUIGLEY (for himself and Ms. Ros-Lehtinen):
       H.R. 1054. A bill to promote botanical research and 
     botanical sciences capacity, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Agriculture, Armed Services, Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and House Administration, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RUSH:
       H.R. 1055. A bill to acknowledge the fundamental injustice 
     and the subsequent de jure and de facto racial and economic 
     discrimination against those African-Americans impacted by 
     the ``War on Drugs'' and the subsequent disparate and 
     discriminatory mass incarceration, to determine the role that 
     private corporations played in the prison industrial complex, 
     to determine the impact of these forces on their families, to 
     make recommendations to the Congress on appropriate remedies, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. SCHRADER (for himself, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, and Mr. DeFazio):
       H.R. 1056. A bill to amend the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act 
     to designate segments of the Molalla River in the State of 
     Oregon as components of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers 
     System, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. TIBERI (for himself, Mr. Neal, Mr. McCaul, Mr. 
             Hunter, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania, and Mr. Buchanan):
       H.R. 1057. A bill to amend the Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure 
     that merchandise arriving through the mail shall be subject 
     to review by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and to 
     require the provision of advance electronic information on 
     shipments of mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WENSTRUP (for himself, Mr. Abraham, Ms. Brownley 
             of California, and Mr. Ruiz):
       H.R. 1058. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     clarify the role of podiatrists in the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BUDD (for himself and Mr. Hunter):
       H.J. Res. 72. A joint resolution relating to the 
     disapproval of the proposed foreign military sale to the 
     Government of Kenya of Air Tractor aircraft with weapons, and 
     related support; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. WILLIAMS (for himself, Mr. King of New York, Mr. 
             Lucas, Mr. McHenry, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Posey, Mr. 
             Luetkemeyer, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. Duffy, Mr. Stivers, 
             Mr. Hultgren, Mr. Ross, Mr. Pittenger, Mrs. Wagner, 
             Mr. Barr, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. Messer, Mr. Tipton, Mr. 
             Hollingsworth, Mr. Poliquin, Mr. Hensarling, Mrs. 
             Love, Mr. Hill, Mr. Emmer, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Trott, Mr. 
             Loudermilk, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, Mr. 
             MacArthur, Mr. Davidson, Mr. Budd, Mr. Kustoff of 
             Tennessee, Ms. Tenney, Mr. Royce of California, and 
             Mr. Graves of Georgia):
       H.J. Res. 73. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by the Bureau of Consumer 
     Financial Protection relating to prepaid accounts under the 
     Electronic Fund Transfer Act and the Truth in Lending Act; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. BURGESS:
       H. Con. Res. 23. Concurrent resolution providing for a 
     joint session of Congress to receive a message from the 
     President; considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. LANGEVIN:
       H. Con. Res. 24. Concurrent resolution establishing a Joint 
     Committee on Russian Interference in the 2016 Election and 
     the Presidential Transition; to the Committee on Rules.
           By Mr. LIPINSKI (for himself, Mr. Collins of New York, 
             Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Costa, Ms. Esty, Mr. 
             Al Green of Texas, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Eddie Bernice 
             Johnson of Texas, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Larsen of 
             Washington, Mr. McNerney, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Peters, Ms. Rosen, Mr. Rush, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Tonko, and Ms. 
             Clarke of New York):
       H. Res. 124. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of Engineers Week; to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology, and in addition to the Committee on Education and 
     the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. HARPER (for himself and Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H. Res. 125. A resolution providing amounts for the 
     expenses of the Committee on House Administration in the One 
     Hundred Fifteenth Congress; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Mr. HENSARLING (for himself and Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California):
       H. Res. 126. A resolution providing amounts for the 
     expenses of the Committee on Financial Services in the One 
     Hundred Fifteenth Congress; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.

                          ____________________



