

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 48 (Monday, March 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 48 (Monday, March 20, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2240]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. MESSER (for himself, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of 
             New York, Mr. Hultgren, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Ms. Sinema, Mr. King 
             of New York, Ms. Norton, Ms. Moore, Mr. Poliquin, Mr. 
             Veasey, Mr. Sherman, and Mr. Kind):
       H.R. 1624. A bill to require the appropriate Federal 
     banking agencies to treat certain municipal obligations as 
     level 2A liquid assets, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself and Ms. Frankel 
             of Florida):
       H.R. 1625. A bill to amend the State Department Basic 
     Authorities Act of 1956 to include severe forms of 
     trafficking in persons within the definition of transnational 
     organized crime for purposes of the rewards program of the 
     Department of State, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. McCAUL:
       H.R. 1626. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to exclude from gross income certain amounts realized on 
     the disposition of property raised or produced by a student 
     farmer, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. BERGMAN (for himself and Mr. Keating):
       H.R. 1627. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to reinstate the returning worker exemption for H-2B 
     visas, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. ADAMS (for herself and Mrs. Lowey):
       H.R. 1629. A bill to restrict the use of steel-jaw leghold 
     traps and Conibear traps on animals in the United States; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Ways and Means, and Foreign Affairs, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself and Ms. Bonamici):
       H.R. 1630. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the 
     Interior to assess sanitation and safety conditions at Bureau 
     of Indian Affairs facilities that were constructed to provide 
     affected Columbia River Treaty tribes access to traditional 
     fishing grounds and expend funds on construction of 
     facilities and structures to improve those conditions, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CRIST:
       H.R. 1631. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to modify the 
     portion of wages and self-employment income subject to 
     payroll taxes, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. DesJARLAIS (for himself, Mr. Barr, Mr. Duncan of 
             Tennessee, and Mr. Roe of Tennessee):
       H.R. 1632. A bill to prohibit the use of Federal money for 
     print, radio, television or any other media advertisement, 
     campaign, or form of publicity against the use of a food or 
     beverage that is lawfully marketed under the Federal Food, 
     Drug, and Cosmetic Act; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. FARENTHOLD:
       H.R. 1633. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to extend the period of time for which a conditional 
     permit to land temporarily may be granted to an alien 
     crewman; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself, Mr. Garamendi, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Ms. Roybal-Allard, and Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio):
       H.R. 1634. A bill to require the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to issue to Federal agencies guidelines for 
     developing procedures and requirements relating to certain 
     primary care Federal health professionals completing 
     continuing medical education on nutrition and to require 
     Federal agencies to submit annual reports relating to such 
     guidelines, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. GUTHRIE (for himself and Ms. Bonamici):
       H.R. 1635. A bill to amend the loan counseling requirements 
     under the Higher Education Act of 1965, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. LARSEN of Washington (for himself, Mr. Coffman, 
             Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, and Ms. DelBene):
       H.R. 1636. A bill to reauthorize the matching grant program 
     for school security in the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
     Streets Act of 1968; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MESSER:
       H.R. 1637. A bill to amend the Consumer Financial 
     Protection Act of 2010 to authorize private parties to compel 
     the Bureau to seek sanctions by filing civil actions, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. POLIQUIN:
       H.R. 1638. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
     to submit a report to the appropriate congressional 
     committees on the estimated total assets under direct or 
     indirect control by certain senior Iranian leaders and other 
     figures, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. SHIMKUS (for himself and Ms. DeGette):
       H.R. 1639. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     provide for the participation of physical therapists in the 
     National Health Service Corps Loan Repayment Program, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ:
       H.R. 1640. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to ensure 
     uniformity in procurement terminology, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Small Business.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California (for herself and Ms. 
             Velazquez):
       H.R. 1641. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     clarify the responsibilities of Business Opportunity 
     Specialists, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Small Business.
           By Mr. WELCH:
       H.R. 1642. A bill to responsibly pay our Nation's bills on 
     time by temporarily extending the public debt limit, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. YOHO:
       H.R. 1643. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     provide agency heads with additional authority to discipline 
     Federal employees, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. BARLETTA (for himself and Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia):
       H. Con. Res. 35. Concurrent resolution authorizing the use 
     of the Capitol Grounds for the National Peace Officers 
     Memorial Service and the National Honor Guard and Pipe Band 
     Exhibition; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. HOYER (for himself, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Brown of 
             Maryland, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Delaney, 
             Ms. Norton, and Mr. Raskin):
       H. Con. Res. 36. Concurrent resolution authorizing the use 
     of the Capitol Grounds for the Greater Washington Soap Box 
     Derby; to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Ms. LOFGREN (for herself, Mr. Smith of Washington, 
             Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Connolly, 
             Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. 
             Speier, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Swalwell of California, Ms. 
             Judy Chu of California, and Mr. Ellison):
       H. Res. 211. A resolution recognizing the cultural and 
     historical significance of Nowruz; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. PANETTA:
       H. Res. 212. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that any legislation to repeal the Patient 
     Protection and Affordable Care Act should include a 
     replacement for such Act that includes certain health care 
     consumer protections; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.

                          ____________________



