

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 53 (Monday, March 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 53 (Monday, March 27, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2463-H2464]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. HUNTER (for himself and Mr. Garamendi):
       H.R. 1726. A bill to amend title 14, United States Code, to 
     improve the organization of such title and to incorporate 
     certain transfers and modifications into such title, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself and Mrs. Lowey):
       H.R. 1727. A bill to prohibit use of body-gripping traps by 
     personnel of the Department of the Interior and the 
     Department of Agriculture and on lands of such departments; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. SIMPSON (for himself and Mr. Labrador):
       H.R. 1728. A bill to modify the boundaries of the Morley 
     Nelson Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. BRAT (for himself and Mr. Moulton):
       H.R. 1729. A bill to provide the public with access to the 
     laws of the United States, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee (for himself, Mr. Kilmer, 
             Mr. Deutch, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Kennedy, and Mrs. 
             McMorris Rodgers):
       H.R. 1730. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide for the protection of community centers with 
     religious affiliation, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky (for himself, Mr. Griffith, 
             Mr. Jenkins of West Virginia, Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania, and Mr. Cartwright):
       H.R. 1731. A bill to amend the Surface Mining Control and 
     Reclamation Act of 1977 to provide funds to States and Indian 
     tribes for the purpose of promoting economic revitalization, 
     diversification, and development in economically distressed 
     communities through the reclamation and restoration of land 
     and water resources adversely affected by coal mining carried 
     out before August 3, 1977, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DENT (for himself, Mr. Himes, and Mr. Barletta):
       H.R. 1732. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     add certain synthetic substances to schedule I, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana (for herself and Mr. 
             Kennedy):
       H.R. 1733. A bill to direct the Secretary of Energy to 
     review and update a report on the energy and environmental 
     benefits of the re-refining of used lubricating oil; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Iowa (for himself, Ms. Roybal-Allard, 
             and Mr. Bilirakis):
       H.R. 1734. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow a refundable tax credit against income tax for 
     the purchase of qualified access technology for the blind; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BABIN:
       H.R. 1735. A bill to direct the Administrator of the 
     Federal Emergency Management Agency to issue guidance 
     regarding implementation of certain buy-outs or the 
     acquisition of property for open space as a flood mitigation 
     measure, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. BUCSHON (for himself, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, 
             Mr. Peters, and Mr. Butterfield):
       H.R. 1736. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to improve the process for inspections of device 
     establishments and for granting export certifications; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CRAWFORD (for himself, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Jones, 
             Mr. Cramer, Mr. Long, Mr. Rouzer, Mr. Rogers of 
             Alabama, Mr. Marshall, Mr. Mitchell, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. 
             Lucas, Mr. Hurd, Mr. Womack, Mr. Stewart, Mr. Gibbs, 
             Mr. Kelly of Mississippi, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Harper, Mr. 
             Yoho, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Hudson, Mr. LaMalfa, 
             Mr. Byrne, Mr. Bost, and Ms. Jenkins of Kansas):
       H.R. 1737. A bill to amend the Water Resources Reform and 
     Development Act of 2014 with respect to the application of 
     the Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure rule to 
     certain farms, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. GARAMENDI:
       H.R. 1738. A bill to establish the Sacramento-San Joaquin 
     Delta National Heritage Area; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Pocan, 
             Mr. Beyer, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
             Ms. Speier, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Mr. Kilmer, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. 
             Takano, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
             Nadler, Ms. Norton, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Danny 
             K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Cohen, 
             Mr. Quigley, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Mr. Peters, 
             Mr. Hastings, and Ms. Wasserman Schultz):
       H.R. 1739. A bill to modernize laws and policies, and 
     eliminate discrimination, with respect to people living with 
     HIV/AIDS, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees on Energy and 
     Commerce, and Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico (for 
             herself, Mr. Mast, Ms. Rosen, Mr. Katko, Mr. 
             Norcross, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. 
             Tonko, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Mr. Evans, Mr. Lance, 
             Mr. Vargas, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Peters, Ms. Frankel of 
             Florida, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Schneider, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Sinema, 
             Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mr. Faso, Ms. 
             Pingree, Ms. Titus, Mr. Sires, Ms. Adams, Mr. 
             Jeffries, Mr. Perlmutter, and Mr. Fitzpatrick):
       H.R. 1740. A bill to allow Homeland Security Grant Program 
     funds to be used to safeguard faith-based community centers 
     across the United States, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. McSALLY (for herself, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Franks of 
             Arizona, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Gosar, and Mr. Schweikert):
       H.R. 1741. A bill to prohibit the intentional hindering of 
     immigration, border, and customs controls, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MESSER:
       H.R. 1742. A bill to require the Archivist of the United 
     States to compile all applications, and rescissions of 
     applications, made to the Congress to call a convention, 
     pursuant to article V of the Constitution, and certain 
     related materials, and to transmit them to Congress, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and Rules, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. O'ROURKE (for himself and Mr. Khanna):
       H.R. 1743. A bill to amend the Federal Election Campaign 
     Act of 1971 to prohibit a candidate for election to the 
     office or Representative in Congress or Senator from 
     accepting contributions from any political committee other 
     than an authorized committee of the candidate and from 
     establishing a leadership PAC; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself, Mr. Sires, Mr. 
             LoBiondo, Mr. Lance, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. 
             Marino, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Cramer, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. Poe of Texas, and Mr. Costa):

[[Page H2464]]

  

       H.R. 1744. A bill to direct the President to submit to 
     Congress a report on fugitives currently residing in other 
     countries whose extradition is sought by the United States 
     and related matters; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. SMITH of Washington (for himself, Mr. Conyers, 
             Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. 
             McGovern, Ms. Jayapal, and Ms. DelBene):
       H.R. 1745. A bill to amend the Balanced Budget and 
     Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 to eliminate the 
     section 251A sequestrations; to the Committee on the Budget.
           By Mr. HASTINGS:
       H. Res. 231. A resolution celebrating the importance of the 
     15th Anniversary of the Arab Peace Initiative as a meaningful 
     effort by Arab countries to the commitment of peace in the 
     Middle East; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. ROUZER:
       H. Res. 232. A resolution recognizing linemen, the 
     profession of linemen, the contributions of these brave men 
     and women who protect public safety, and expressing support 
     for the designation of April 18, 2017, as National Lineman 
     Appreciation Day; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.

                          ____________________



