

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 59 (Wednesday, April 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 59 (Wednesday, April 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2699-H2700]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                             RISE UP MAY 1

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. Gutierrez) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. GUTIERREZ. Mr. Speaker, if Donald Trump is going to be successful 
as a President--successful from his point of view; not the point of 
view of the American people, or history, or the rest of the world, or 
the point of view of people who like peace and freedom, but from his 
point of view--then he is going to have to rely on fear.
  He got elected by creating fear about immigrants, Mexicans, and 
Latinos, calling us rapists and criminals. He got elected by creating 
fear about President Obama, the Blacks, thugs, and big cities.
  He got elected by creating fear among Americans about the big, scary 
world out there with threats from ISIS, al-Qaida, and Mexico. But for 
some reason, he left out things like the fear of Russia or his buddy 
and friend, Putin.
  And if President Trump is going to enact his agenda of deportations, 
building a wall, and making it impossible for people to come to the 
United States with visas, he needs to use fear as well. For example, he 
feels he needs to publish a list every week of the crimes that were 
committed by immigrants to scare Americans into fearing our community.

  And Trump needs to use fear in another very important way. He needs 
to scare the immigrant community.
  Why?
  Because he knows he doesn't have the money, the manpower, or the time 
to drive 11 million men, women, and children who are undocumented out 
of this country. He doesn't have enough jails, ICE agents, or airplanes 
to deport

[[Page H2700]]

11 million people. That is the population about as big as the State of 
Illinois, and such a max exodus will not be easy.
  So what do they do?
  They use fear. Trump has to make immigrants scared to leave their 
houses. Trump has to make parents scared to take their kids to school. 
Trump has to make doctors' offices, courthouses, police stations, and 
fire departments places where immigrants are afraid to go.
  Trump has to make sure that undocumented immigrants who are raising 
children--most of whom are American citizens--in families who have 
lived in the U.S. on average for more than a dozen years, and who own 
homes, cars, and businesses, he has to make them so afraid that they 
want to leave this country.
  It is a Presidency and a Presidential policy agenda that relies on 
fear and bullying to achieve success--or what people who surround Trump 
define as success, at any rate.
  How do Americans respond to fear? Do we hide in our homes and isolate 
ourselves and run?
  No, that is not what people do in the United States of America, and 
we never will. We stand up and we stand together and confront fear.
  So on May 1, millions of Americans are going to stand up. We are 
going to stand together and we are going to rise up.
  May 1 is an international day to recognize the contributions of 
working people, and it is observed as Labor Day in much of the world. 
This year, it will be a day to honor working people of all types, but 
there will be a special emphasis this year on immigrants working and 
living in the United States.
  In 42 cities in 33 States, from Milwaukee to Seattle, to LA, to 
Chicago, to Boston, cities and towns will hold activities, marches, 
rallies, and workshops to lift up immigrant communities and demonstrate 
the solidarity between Americans and immigrants.
  This is a campaign to galvanize broad support for immigrants, so this 
is not going to just be a Latino thing or an immigrant thing. Churches, 
mosques, and congregations are going to rise up. Unions, students, 
teachers, and working men and women are going to rise up on May 1.
  Let's be clear, when we marched for women in massive numbers the day 
after the inauguration, it was not just women marching. When we came to 
the airports to stand up for American values and against Trump's Muslim 
ban, it was not just Muslims standing up for American values. It was a 
lot of the rest of us, too.
  So if you care about justice, rise up with us on May 1. If you think 
a man should be able to use a men's bathroom, even if his birth 
certificate says he was born a woman, rise up with us. If you think 
global warming is a thing and science is a thing and the planet Earth 
is a thing to be protected, then go to riseupmay1.org to get more info 
about what is planned in your city or your State.
  This will be a day for all Americans to demonstrate our resistance to 
the mass deportation, mass discrimination, and mass deception policies 
of our President.
  The way you deal with fear is to stand up with your friends and 
allies and demonstrate your strength in numbers. That is why I am going 
to rise up on May 1.
  Mr. Speaker, I would like to take a moment to welcome the graduating 
class of 2017 from Inter-American Magnet School in the city of Chicago 
and the parents who are accompanying the students and the teachers. A 
special welcome to my grandson, Luis Andres Figueroa Gutierrez, who is 
with them this morning at our Capitol.

                          ____________________



