

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 36 (Wednesday, March 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 36 (Wednesday, March 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1540-S1541]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 59

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 59, a bill to provide that 
silencers be treated the same as long guns.


                                 S. 132

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 132, a bill to amend title 
54, United States Code, to provide for congressional and State approval 
of national monuments and restrictions on the use of national 
monuments.

[[Page S1541]]

  



                                 S. 152

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 152, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to provide for the removal or demotion of 
employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs based on performance or 
misconduct, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 203

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Florida (Mr. 
Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 203, a bill to reaffirm that the 
Environmental Protection Agency may not regulate vehicles used solely 
for competition, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 223

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 223, a bill to provide 
immunity from suit for certain individuals who disclose potential 
examples of financial exploitation of senior citizens, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 236, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic 
beverages.


                                 S. 254

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 254, a bill to amend 
the Native American Programs Act of 1974 to provide flexibility and 
reauthorization to ensure the survival and continuing vitality of 
Native American languages.


                                 S. 315

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 315, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of the Army to place in Arlington National Cemetery a 
monument honoring the helicopter pilots and crewmembers who were killed 
while serving on active duty in the Armed Forces during the Vietnam 
era, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 339

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the names of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Crapo), the Senator from Florida (Mr. Rubio), the Senator from 
Alaska (Ms. Murkowski), the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Tillis), 
the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Cotton), the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
Heller), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) and the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) were added as cosponsors of S. 339, a bill to 
amend title 10, United States Code, to repeal the requirement for 
reduction of survivor annuities under the Survivor Benefit Plan by 
veterans' dependency and indemnity compensation, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to 
amend the Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving 
through the mail shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection and to require the provision of advance electronic 
information on shipments of mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 389

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 389, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to ensure that kombucha is exempt from 
any excise taxes and regulations imposed on alcoholic beverages.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 407, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the railroad track 
maintenance credit.


                                 S. 415

  At the request of Ms. Cortez Masto, the names of the Senator from New 
York (Mr. Schumer), the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) and the Senator 
from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) were added as cosponsors of S. 415, a 
bill to nullify the effect of the recent Executive order that makes the 
vast majority of unauthorized individuals priorities for removal and 
aims to withhold critical Federal funding to sanctuary cities.


                                 S. 420

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 420, a bill to 
require the President to report on the use by the Government of Iran of 
commercial aircraft and related services for illicit military or other 
activities, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 422

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the names of the Senator from 
Florida (Mr. Nelson), the Senator from Minnesota (Mr. Franken) and the 
Senator from Colorado (Mr. Bennet) were added as cosponsors of S. 422, 
a bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to clarify presumptions 
relating to the exposure of certain veterans who served in the vicinity 
of the Republic of Vietnam, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 431

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 431, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to expand the use of 
telehealth for individuals with stroke.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 445, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure more timely 
access to home health services for Medicare beneficiaries under the 
Medicare program.


                                 S. 473

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand), the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) and the Senator 
from Michigan (Mr. Peters) were added as cosponsors of S. 473, a bill 
to amend title 38, United States Code, to make qualification 
requirements for entitlement to Post-9/11 Education Assistance more 
equitable, to improve support of veterans receiving such educational 
assistance, and for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 11

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 11, a joint 
resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of 
title 5, United States Code, of the final rule of the Bureau of Land 
Management relating to ``Waste Prevention, Production Subject to 
Royalties, and Resource Conservation''.


                               S. RES. 54

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the names of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Portman) and the Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein) were 
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 54, a resolution expressing the 
unwavering commitment of the United States to the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization.


                               S. RES. 70

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 70, a resolution 
recognizing the 75th anniversary of Executive Order 9066 and expressing 
the sense of the Senate that policies that discriminate against any 
individual based on the actual or perceived race, ethnicity, national 
origin, or religion of that individual would be a repetition of the 
mistakes of Executive Order 9066 and contrary to the values of the 
United States.

                          ____________________



