

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 51 (Thursday, March 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 51 (Thursday, March 23, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1974-S1975]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 168

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the names of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) and the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 168, a bill to amend and enhance certain 
maritime programs of the Department of Transportation.


                                 S. 170

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 170, a bill to 
provide for nonpreemption of measures by State and local governments to 
divest from entities that engage in commerce-related or investment-
related boycott, divestment, or sanctions activities targeting Israel, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 301

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Portman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 301, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to prohibit governmental discrimination 
against providers of health services that are not involved in abortion.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to amend the 
Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving through the mail 
shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and to 
require the provision of advance electronic information on shipments of 
mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and for other purposes.


                                 S. 389

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 389, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to ensure that kombucha is exempt from 
any excise taxes and regulations imposed on alcoholic beverages.


                                 S. 394

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 394, a bill to amend 
chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, to provide that a member of 
the Armed Forces and the spouse of that member shall have the same 
rights regarding the receipt of firearms at the location of any duty 
station of the member.


                                 S. 425

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 425, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to improve the historic rehabilitation 
tax credit, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 448

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 448, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for treatment of 
clinical psychologists as physicians for purposes of furnishing 
clinical psychologist services under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) and the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) were

[[Page S1975]]

added as cosponsors of S. 479, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under Medicare for colorectal 
cancer screening tests, regardless of whether therapeutic intervention 
is required during the screening.


                                 S. 486

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the names of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) and the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 486, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to provide for the non-application of Medicare competitive 
acquisition rates to complex rehabilitative wheelchairs and 
accessories.


                                 S. 512

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 512, a bill to modernize the 
regulation of nuclear energy.


                                 S. 534

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 534, a bill to 
prevent the sexual abuse of minors and amateur athletes by requiring 
the prompt reporting of sexual abuse to law enforcement authorities, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 537

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 537, a bill 
to amend title 9 of the United States Code with respect to arbitration.


                                 S. 573

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 573, a bill to 
establish the National Criminal Justice Commission.


                                 S. 591

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 591, a bill to 
expand eligibility for the program of comprehensive assistance for 
family caregivers of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to expand 
benefits available to participants under such program, to enhance 
special compensation for members of the uniformed services who require 
assistance in everyday life, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 604

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 604, a bill to 
allow certain State permitting authority to encourage expansion of 
broadband service to rural communities, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 605

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 605, a bill to amend the Forest 
and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 and the Federal 
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 to discourage litigation against 
the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management relating to land 
management projects.


                                 S. 623

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 623, a bill to enhance the 
transparency and accelerate the impact of assistance provided under the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to promote quality basic education in 
developing countries, to better enable such countries to achieve 
universal access to quality basic education and improved learning 
outcomes, to eliminate duplication and waste, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 668

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the names of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin), the Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein) and the 
Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) were added as cosponsors of 
S. 668, a bill to nullify the effect of the recent Executive order 
regarding border security and immigration enforcement.


                                 S. 681

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the names of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van 
Hollen) were added as cosponsors of S. 681, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to improve the benefits and services provided by 
the Department of Veterans Affairs to women veterans, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 697

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 697, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to lower the mileage threshold for 
deduction in determining adjusted gross income of certain expenses of 
members of reserve components of the Armed Forces, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 699

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 699, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
furnish mental and behavioral health care to certain individuals 
discharged or released from the active military, naval, or air service 
under conditions other than honorable, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



