

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S967-S968]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 59

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 59, a bill to 
provide that silencers be treated the same as long guns.


                                 S. 66

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the names of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 66, a bill to amend title 10, United 
States Code, to permit certain retired members of the uniformed 
services who have a service-connected disability to receive both 
disability compensation from the Department of Veterans Affairs for 
their disability and either retired pay by reason of their years of 
military service or Combat-Related Special Compensation, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 86

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the names of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) and the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Tillis) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 86, a bill to amend the Veterans Access, 
Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 to modify the termination date 
for the Veterans Choice Program.


                                 S. 139

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 139, a bill to 
implement the use of Rapid DNA instruments to inform decisions about 
pretrial release or detention and their conditions, to solve and 
prevent violent crimes and other crimes, to exonerate the innocent, to 
prevent DNA analysis backlogs, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 178

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 178, a bill to prevent 
elder abuse and

[[Page S968]]

exploitation and improve the justice system's response to victims in 
elder abuse and exploitation cases.


                                 S. 203

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr. 
Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 203, a bill to reaffirm that the 
Environmental Protection Agency may not regulate vehicles used solely 
for competition, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 253

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed), the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) and 
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy) were added as cosponsors of S. 
253, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to repeal 
the Medicare outpatient rehabilitation therapy caps.


                                 S. 306

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 306, a bill to provide for a 
biennial budget process and a biennial appropriations process and to 
enhance oversight and the performance of the Federal Government.


                                 S. 316

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) was added as a cosponsor of S. 316, a bill to amend the 
Mineral Leasing Act to recognize the authority of States to regulate 
oil and gas operations and promote American energy security, 
development, and job creation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Lee) was added as a cosponsor of S. 324, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to improve the provision of adult day health care 
services for veterans.


                                 S. 333

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 333, a bill to limit 
donations made pursuant to settlement agreements to which the United 
States is a party, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 337

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 337, a bill to 
provide paid family and medical leave benefits to certain individuals, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 338

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 338, a bill to protect 
scientific integrity in Federal research and policymaking, and for 
other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 4

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Utah 
(Mr. Lee) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 4, a joint resolution 
disapproving the action of the District of Columbia Council in 
approving the Death with Dignity Act of 2016.


                             S. CON. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 6, a concurrent 
resolution supporting the Local Radio Freedom Act.


                               S. RES. 51

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Warner) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 51, a resolution 
recognizing the contributions of Federal employees and pledging to 
oppose efforts to reduce Federal workforce pay and benefits, eliminate 
civil service employment protections, undermine collective bargaining, 
and increase the use of non-Federal contractors for inherently 
governmental activities.

                          ____________________



