

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S29-S30]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         A CHANGE IN DIRECTION

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, 2 years ago the American people sent a 
new majority to the Senate. They called for achange in direction. They 
called for the Senate to get to work. So we got committees functioning 
again, we gave Members of bothparties a say again, and we put the 
Senate back to work again and back on the side of the American people.
  Because we did, we were able to get important things done with a 
President of a different party. We put an end to the numberof 
Washington artificial cliffs and punts. We helped make our 
infrastructure stronger. We helped make our communities healthierand 
our country safer. We gave our children more opportunities to succeed 
in school, and we helped ensure that those who sufferexploitation and 
abuse--whether veterans or the victims of human trafficking--can know 
more of the justice, hope, and care theydeserve.
  I am proud of what we were able to achieve in a time of divided 
government, just as I am excited about the possibilitiesthat lie ahead.
  We now stand on the horizon of a new era. We seated a new Congress 
yesterday. We will inaugurate a new President later thismonth. The 
challenges ahead are great, and the work to come will be hard, but just 
as we heard the voices of the American peoplein 2014, we heard their 
message this last election as well. Americans called for change from 
the last 8 years and for hope, atlong last. Each of us, regardless of 
party, has a mandate to help and to play a role.
  The first way to begin realizing that hope, in my view, is to remove 
the things that are hurting families right now. ThePresident-elect will 
have an important role to play there, especially in addressing 
overbearing, ideologically drivenregulations.
  Congress will have its role too. In terms of what we can do here most 
immediately, ObamaCare is at the top of the list. Itis the very first 
item we will consider this session. We will continue to devote 
significant time to it as well.
  I know some of our Democratic friends would prefer we didn't act--
that we just sit on our hands as premiums jump higher, asmore Americans 
lose plans, and as others continue to struggle with insurance too 
costly to actually use. That is essentially themessage the outgoing 
President came this morning to deliver. The incoming Vice President 
came this morning, too, and deliveredan entirely different message.
  But repeal is just the first step. We know it will take time to undo 
the damage of this partisan law. We want--and we willneed--the 
contributions of all colleagues as we turn to the development of a 
lasting, durable reform.
  The same is true of our economy. We know the economy over the last 8 
years hasn't lived up to its potential--not for workingpeople, not for 
small businesses, and certainly not for the next generation. We will 
have disagreements about the best wayforward. That is entirely natural. 
But, if we look, we will continue to find areas of agreement too. There 
are importantcontributions for each of us to make. That is the lesson 
of the 114th Congress.
  A more open Senate is a more empowering Senate, but it is also a more 
demanding Senate. It gives each of us more of a say inthe development 
of legislation, just as it requires more of a responsibility in 
cooperating. In short, it gives the minorityparty a stake in governing 
and thus the obligations that come along with that.
  I welcome our colleague from New York in his new role as Democratic 
leader. The role of leading a party is never easy. Hehas a tough job 
ahead of him. I respect him for that. While I know we will often 
disagree, I am also reminded of his words justbefore the election. ``We 
have a moral obligation,'' the Democratic leader said just before the 
election, ``even beyond theeconomy and politics, to avoid gridlock and 
get the country to work again.''
  ``We have to get things done,'' he said.

[[Page S30]]

  If that is our guiding principle, then I know we can make this 
session a success. It is what will allow us to get theappropriations 
process moving, for example. We can set the pace now by working toward 
a smooth nomination process.
  I ask our Democratic friends to remember the consideration we showed 
President-Elect Obama's nominees in 2009. We approvedseven--seven--
members of his Cabinet unanimously within hours of his inauguration. 
Seven nominees for President Obama's Cabinetwere approved unanimously 
within hours of his inauguration.
  Now, some nominations will be more contentious. I am sure that will 
be true, of course, of the Supreme Court. It has beenclear throughout 
that the next President would name the next Supreme Court Justice. I 
maintained that position even when manythought a President of a 
different party would be taking the oath this month. Now the President 
who won the election will makethe nomination, and the Senate that the 
American people just reelected will consider that nomination.
  But not everything need become so contentious. We will have many 
opportunities to cooperate. I have mentioned severalalready. We will 
see many more in committee. Shortly, we hope to see an example of that 
in the Intelligence Committee, whereChairman Burr will lead Members of 
both parties in a serious, comprehensive, and responsible review of any 
Russianinvolvement in our elections. Leader Schumer will join the 
committee as an ex-officio member and will be able to review thereports 
of the intelligence community. The Armed Services Committee will review 
how best to tie our cyber capabilities to ourwarfighting doctrine.
  It is just this type of issue--something both parties say is too 
important to become a partisan football--where we often seethe hard 
work of legislating and oversight transcend party. We saw it last 
Congress when, for instance, Members of both partiescame together--and 
held together--on highways, on efforts to cure incurable diseases, and 
on providing TPA authority to both thecurrent President and the next 
one. I hope we will see similar cooperation on many issues to come.
  The American people are watching us. They are hurting. They are 
calling for a change in direction. It is now our unitedresponsibility 
to move forward with their needs and their priorities as our guide.
  Let me again welcome every new Member of the Senate. I want again to 
congratulate the Democratic leader, and let me againacknowledge 
President-Elect Trump for an impressive victory. He heard the voices of 
Americans in every part of the country inways others have not. He now 
carries a heavy burden.
  We will work with him to help the American people feel confident 
again--confident in themselves and confident in theirfutures.
  We look forward to the inauguration in just over 2 weeks. There is 
now much serious work to be done. I look forward toworking with each of 
you to achieve it.

                          ____________________



