

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 18 (Thursday, February 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 18 (Thursday, February 2, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H882]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                             END HUNGER NOW

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, a recent USDA report on ``Foods Typically 
Purchased by SNAP Households'' has sparked conversation in the press 
and on Capitol Hill about ways to promote healthy eating among those 
who rely on SNAP benefits. Quite frankly, I am troubled by the way the 
report has been characterized and by some of the responses.
  Flashy headlines and convenient sound bites selectively highlighting 
findings that tell only half the story are damaging to what should be 
our shared goal of ensuring that our most vulnerable neighbors have the 
support they need for their families. In fact, one of the key findings 
in the report is that the spending habits by SNAP households and non-
SNAP households are very similar.
  I think it is safe to say that all of us could be making healthier 
choices when it comes to the food that we eat. But if we want to talk 
about promoting healthy eating among those who rely on SNAP, we need to 
start by enhancing and making further investments in nutrition 
education programs, increasing access to healthy foods in underserved 
communities, and expanding pilots that have proven effective in 
increasing fruit and vegetable consumption. Most importantly, Mr. 
Speaker, we need to increase SNAP benefits so low-income families have 
the ability to purchase healthier foods.
  Last Congress, the House Agriculture Committee completed a thorough 
review of SNAP--17 hearings. As ranking member of the Nutrition 
Subcommittee, I participated in each of these hearings, and we heard 
time and time and time again that the current SNAP benefit, which 
averages $1.40 per person per meal, is inadequate. It is hard to buy a 
cup of coffee these days for $1.40.
  This meager benefit is often too low for families to stave off hunger 
during the month, and certainly does not provide enough support to 
allow families to maintain healthy diets on a consistent basis. Without 
additional benefits, we know that people are making very difficult 
choices. They have to choose between food or medicine, between food for 
their families or stable housing.
  Research from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities has found 
that increasing SNAP benefits by a mere $30 per month would lower food 
insecurity, decrease fast-food consumption, and increase vegetable 
consumption.
  Similarly, USDA's Healthy Incentives Pilot provided SNAP recipients 
in Hampden County, Massachusetts, with additional benefits if they 
purchased targeted fruits and vegetables, and it was highly successful. 
The result was an increase in healthy food consumption. Participants in 
this pilot consumed 26 percent more targeted fruits and vegetables per 
day and spent more of their SNAP benefits on these items than did 
nonparticipants.
  We know that low-income families who rely on SNAP have to make 
difficult choices in trying to stretch their meal budgets and often 
select cheaper foods that contain refined grains and added sugars and 
fats. This research from the Center on Budget and the results of 
projects such as the one in Massachusetts confirm what we know to be 
true: providing additional resources for food to families living in 
poverty will enable them to make healthier choices for themselves and 
their families.
  We should not be demonizing the poor by policing their shopping 
carts, Mr. Speaker. It is far too easy and has become far too 
commonplace for those of us with steady incomes and paychecks that 
provide us with access to the healthiest foods to second-guess the 
choices of these families struggling to make ends meet. It is insulting 
and it is mean-spirited and more than a little hypocritical to suggest 
that we meal plan for those living in poverty while we continue feeding 
our families the same foods that some of us suggest we should limit in 
our antihunger programs.
  Eating more nutritious foods should be a goal for all of us, Mr. 
Speaker. It will lead to better health, reduced medical costs, more 
engaged kids who are able to learn better, and also more productive 
adults.
  But if we are going to promote healthier eating and work to end 
hunger now, we must start by increasing the current SNAP benefits. And 
I would say to any of my colleagues who dealt this: You try living on a 
SNAP budget. You try living on $1.40 per person per meal. You will find 
it not only difficult to put food on the table, but especially 
challenging to make nutritious and healthy choices.
  As we consider the next farm bill, let us enhance the SNAP benefit. 
It is the right thing to do.

                          ____________________



