

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H71-H74]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




    THOROUGHLY INVESTIGATING RETALIATION AGAINST WHISTLEBLOWERS ACT

  Mr. CHAFFETZ. Mr.Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill

[[Page H72]]

(H.R. 69) to reauthorize the Office of Special Counsel, to amendtitle 
5, United States Code, to provide modifications to authorities relating 
to the Office of Special Counsel, and for otherpurposes.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                H.R. 69

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORTTITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Thoroughly Investigating 
     Retaliation Against Whistleblowers Act''.

     SEC. 2. REAUTHORIZATION OF THE OFFICE OF SPECIAL COUNSEL.

       (a) In General.--Section 8(a)(2) of theWhistleblower 
     Protection Act of 1989 (5 U.S.C. 5509 note) is amended to 
     read as follows:
       ``(2) $24,119,000 for fiscal year2017 and $25,735,000 for 
     each of fiscal years 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021 to carry out 
     subchapter II of chapter 12 of title 5,United States Code (as 
     amended by this Act).''.
       (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
     shall bedeemed to apply beginning on October 1, 2016.

     SEC. 3. ACCESS TO AGENCYINFORMATION.

       Section 1212(b) of title 5, United States Code, is amended 
     by adding at the end the following:
       ``(5)(A) Incarrying out this subchapter, the Special 
     Counsel is authorized to--
       ``(i) have access to any record or other 
     information(including a report, audit, review, document, 
     recommendation, or other material) of any agency under the 
     jurisdiction of theOffice of Special Counsel, consistent with 
     the requirements of subparagraph (C); and
       ``(ii) require any employee of such anagency to provide to 
     the Office any record or other information during an 
     investigation, review, or inquiry of any agency underthe 
     jurisdiction of the Office.
       ``(B) With respect to any record or other information made 
     available by an agency under thissubchapter, the Office shall 
     apply a level of confidentiality to such record or 
     information at the level of confidentialityapplied to the 
     record by the agency.
       ``(C) With respect to any record or other information 
     described under subparagraph (A),the Attorney General or an 
     Inspector General may withhold access to any such record or 
     other information if the disclosure couldreasonably be 
     expected to interfere with an ongoing criminal investigation 
     or prosecution, but only if the Attorney General orapplicable 
     agency head submits a written report to the Office of Special 
     Counsel describing the record or other informationwithheld 
     and the reason for the withholding.''.

     SEC. 4. WHISTLEBLOWERPROVISIONS.

       Section 1213 of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``15 days'' andinserting 
     ``45 days'';
       (2) in subsection (d)--
       (A) in paragraph (4), by striking ``and'' at the end;
       (B) in paragraph(5)--
       (i) in the matter before subparagraph (A), by striking 
     ``such as'' and inserting ``including''; and
       (ii) insubparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end 
     and inserting ``; and''; and
       (C) by adding at the end thefollowing:
       ``(6) if any disclosure referred to an agency head under 
     subsection (c) is substantiated in whole or in part bythe 
     agency head, a detailed explanation of the failure to take 
     any action described under paragraph (5).''; and
       (3) insubsection (e), by adding at the end the following:
       ``(5) If an agency head submits a report to the Special 
     Counsel undersubsection (d) that includes a description of 
     any agency action proposed to be taken as a result of the 
     investigation, theagency head shall, not later than 180 days 
     after the date of such submission, submit a supplemental 
     report to the SpecialCounsel stating whether any proposed 
     action has been taken, and if the action has not been taken, 
     the reason why it has not beentaken.''.

     SEC. 5. TERMINATION OF CERTAIN OSC INVESTIGATIONS.

       (a) InGeneral.--Section 1214(a) of title 5, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
       ``(6)(A) Within 30days of receiving an allegation from a 
     person under paragraph (1), the Special Counsel may terminate 
     an investigation under suchparagraph with respect to the 
     allegation, without further inquiry or an opportunity for the 
     person to respond, if the SpecialCounsel determines that--
       ``(i) the same allegation, based on the same set of facts 
     and circumstances--
       ``(I) hadpreviously been made by the person and previously 
     investigated by the Special Counsel; or
       ``(II) had previously been filedby the person with the 
     Merit Systems Protection Board;
       ``(ii) the Office of Special Counsel does not have 
     jurisdiction toinvestigate the allegation; or
       ``(iii) the person knew or should have known of the alleged 
     prohibited personnel practiceearlier than the date that is 3 
     years before the date Special Counsel received the 
     allegation.
       ``(B) If the Special Counselterminates an investigation 
     under subparagraph (A), not later than 30 days after the date 
     of such termination the SpecialCounsel shall provide a 
     written notification stating the basis for the termination to 
     the person who made the allegation.Paragraph (1)(D) shall not 
     apply to any termination under such subparagraph.''.
       (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section1214 of title 5, United 
     States Code, is amended--
       (1) in subsection (a)(1)(A), by striking ``The Special 
     Counsel'' andinserting ``Except as provided in paragraph (6), 
     the Special Counsel''; and
       (2) in subsection (a)(1)(C), in the matterbefore clause 
     (i), by inserting ``or paragraph (6)'' after ``paragraph 
     (2)''.

     SEC. 6.REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

       (a) OSC Annual Report to Congress.--Section 1218 of title 
     5, United States Code, is amended toread as follows:

     ``Sec. 1218. Annual report

       ``(a) The Special Counsel shall submit anannual report to 
     Congress on the activities of the Special Counsel. Any such 
     report shall include--
       ``(1) the number, types,and disposition of allegations of 
     prohibited personnel practices filed with the Special 
     Counsel, and the cost of allegations sodisposed of;
       ``(2) the number of investigations conducted by the Special 
     Counsel;
       ``(3) the number of stays ordisciplinary actions negotiated 
     by the Special Counsel with agencies;
       ``(4) the number of cases in which the Special Counseldid 
     not make a determination whether there are reasonable grounds 
     to believe that a prohibited personnel practice has 
     occurred,exists, or is to be taken within the 240-day period 
     specified in section 1214(b)(2)(A)(i);
       ``(5) a description of therecommendations and reports made 
     by the Special Counsel to other agencies pursuant to this 
     subchapter, and the actions taken bythe agencies as a result 
     of the reports or recommendations;
       ``(6) the number of--
       ``(A) actions initiated before theMerit Systems Protection 
     Board, including the number of corrective action petitions 
     and disciplinary action complaints soinitiated; and
       ``(B) stays and stay extensions obtained from the Board; 
     and
       ``(7) the number of prohibited personnelpractice complaints 
     that result in--
       ``(A) a favorable action for the complainant, categorized 
     by actions with respect towhistleblower reprisal cases and 
     all other cases; and
       ``(B) a favorable outcome for the complainant, categorized 
     by outcomeswith respect to whistleblower reprisal cases and 
     all other cases.
       ``(b) The report required by subsection (a) shall 
     includewhatever recommendations for legislation or other 
     action by Congress the Special Counsel may consider 
     appropriate.''.
       (b)OSC Public Information.--Section 1219(a)(1) of title 5, 
     United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
       ``(1) a listof any noncriminal matter referred to an agency 
     head under section 1213(c), together with--
       ``(A) the applicable transmittalof the matter to the agency 
     head under section 1213(c)(1);
       ``(B) any report from agency head under section 
     1213(c)(1)(B)relating to such matter;
       ``(C) if appropriate, not otherwise prohibited by law, and 
     with the consent of the complainant, anycomments from the 
     complainant under section 1213(e)(1) relating to the matter; 
     and
       ``(D) the Special Counsel's comments orrecommendations 
     under section 1213(e)(3) or (4) relating to the matter;''.

     SEC. 7.ESTABLISHMENT OF SURVEY PILOT PROGRAM.

       (a) In General.--The Office of Special Counsel shall design 
     and establish asurvey pilot program under which the Office 
     shall conduct, with respect to fiscal years 2018 and 2019, a 
     survey of individualswho have filed a complaint or disclosure 
     with the Office. The survey shall be designed to gather 
     responses from the individualsfor the purpose of collecting 
     information and improving customer service at various stages 
     of the review or investigativeprocess. The results of the 
     survey shall be published in the annual report of the Office.
       (b) Suspension of OtherSurveys.--During fiscal years 2018 
     and 2019, section 13 of Public Law 103-424 shall have no 
     force or effect.

     SEC. 8. PENALTIES UNDER THE HATCH ACT.

       (a) In General.--Section 7326 of title 5, United States 
     Code,is amended to read as follows:

     ``Sec. 7326. Penalties

       ``An employee or individual whoviolates section 7323 or 
     7324 shall be subject to--
       ``(1) disciplinary action consisting of removal, reduction 
     in grade,debarment from Federal employment for a period not 
     to exceed 5 years, suspension, or reprimand;
       ``(2) an assessment of acivil penalty not to exceed $1,000; 
     or
       ``(3) any combination of the penalties described in 
     paragraph (1) or(2).''.
       (b) Application.--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
     shall apply to any violation of section 7323 or 7324of title 
     5, United States Code, occurring after the date of enactment 
     of this Act.

     SEC. 9.REGULATIONS.

       Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this 
     Act, the Special Counsel shall prescribe suchregulations as 
     may be necessary to perform the functions of the

[[Page H73]]

     Special Counsel under subchapter II of chapter 12 of title5, 
     United States Code, including regulations necessary to carry 
     out sections 1213, 1214, and 1215 of such title, and 
     anyfunctions required due to the amendments made by this Act. 
     Such regulations shall be published in the Federal Register.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Utah (Mr. Chaffetz) and thegentleman from Missouri (Mr. Clay) each will 
control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Utah.


                             General Leave

  Mr. CHAFFETZ. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimousconsent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks 
and include extraneous materialon the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Utah?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. CHAFFETZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume tothe 
gentleman from Iowa (Mr. Blum), the lead sponsor of this legislation.
  Mr. BLUM. Mr.Speaker, I am proud to speak today on behalf of our 
legislation to reauthorize the Office of Special Counsel for an 
additional5-year period to protect whistleblowers, Federal employees 
who have the courage to come forward to expose waste, fraud, andabuse 
in the Federal Government and who are so important to our oversight 
responsibilities here in Congress.
  The Office ofSpecial Counsel performs a variety of important 
responsibilities. Chief amongst them is investigating retaliation 
againstwhistleblowers from the executive branch agencies, as well as 
other prohibited personnel practices. Once again, this is 
vitallyimportant to the work we perform in the Government Reform and 
Oversight Committee and ensures greater accountability from 
theexecutive branch to Congress.
  We are proud of the support this bipartisan bill has received from 
the whistleblower communityand from those who care deeply about our 
efforts to perform effective oversight in our Federal Government.
  Since the lastauthorization expired in 2007, there are a number of 
necessary reforms for the OSC as the role of the Office continues to 
growand evolve. By enacting this legislation, we can ensure the Office 
of Special Counsel will have access to Federal agency recordsthat are 
absolutely necessary to perform their duty of protecting Federal 
employees who had the courage to speak up aboutmalpractice, 
mismanagement, and fraud in the Federal Government.
  I think we can all agree how unfortunate it is that someexecutive 
agencies continue to stonewall the Office of Special Counsel in order 
to prevent them from investigating retaliatoryactions against 
whistleblowers, even going so far as to invoke executive privilege when 
dealing with the OSC. Common sense tellsus that this is unacceptable. 
If the Office of Special Counsel isn't granted the access to the 
information it needs, there is noway it can properly conduct the duties 
authorized by Congress.
  This bill also takes important steps to increase theefficiency and 
effectiveness of the Office of Special Counsel, such as allowing OSC to 
use a simplified process to reduceduplicative complaints to better 
focus their limited resources on allegations and investigations, and 
instituting a commonsense3-year statute of limitations after which 
document recovery and witness recollections can be difficult to obtain.
  Mr.Speaker, before concluding my remarks, I would like to 
specifically highlight the important work the Office of Special 
Counselperformed recently in their exposure of the mismanagement and 
abuse of our veterans at the Department of Veterans Affairs.
  Two whistleblowers at the VA hospital in Phoenix, Arizona, recently 
came forward with information regarding inadequatemental health 
treatment in employee training at their facility. They were later 
retaliated against by management. OSC was ableto ensure that they 
received a new job at a nearby facility under different management. 
Just last month, the VA issued a reportin response to OSC's 
investigation detailing the changes they had made to improve mental 
health care at that VA facility.
  Incidents like these serve as a great reminder that hardworking 
taxpayers are tired of corruption in the Federal Government.
  I would also like to note the excellent work of the current special 
counsel, Carolyn Lerner, who is a breath of fresh air inthis role.
  Mr. Speaker, the bottom line is this committee, the Committee on 
Oversight and Government Reform, needs morewhistleblowers in the 
Federal Government, not less; and the best way to ensure government 
employees come forward to exposewaste, fraud, and abuse is to ensure 
that they will be protected. This legislation will enable OSC to do 
exactly that on behalfof all hardworking American taxpayers.
  I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support this 
legislation.
  Mr. CLAY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I rise in support of thisbipartisan bill which reauthorizes the 
Office of Special Counsel. The OSC serves as a safe harbor for Federal 
whistleblowers todisclose wrongdoing. OSC also works to protect Federal 
employees and applicants for Federal employment from prohibited 
personnelpractices.
  The bill would make clear that OSC is entitled to access agency 
information in its investigations. This billwould also allow OSC to 
hold agencies more accountable from whistleblower retaliation. Under 
this bill, if any agencysubstantiates a whistleblower disclosure from 
OSC but fails to take a recommended corrective action, the agency must 
explain whyit failed to take the action.
  This legislation would strengthen the tools available to OSC for 
addressing and correctingretaliation and discrimination in the Federal 
workplace. It is more important than ever for the Office of Special 
Counsel tohave the tools it needs to protect the Federal workforce.
  I urge my colleagues to support this bill.
  Mr. Speaker, Ireserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. CHAFFETZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I mayconsume.
  First, let me note in the last Congress this legislation passed out 
of committee by regular order and passed theHouse on January 11, 2016.
  The Office of Special Counsel is tasked with protecting Federal 
employees fromprohibited personnel practices, including reprisals on 
whistleblowers. Whistleblowers are an indispensable part of 
helpingCongress identify waste, fraud, and abuse at Federal agencies. 
Information provided by these brave folks can result ininvestigations 
and legislation that changes the way we conduct ourselves in 
government.
  As the agency tasked with protectingwhistleblowers, the OSC is vital 
to make sure these individuals feel comfortable coming forward and that 
they are offeredprotections. The agency has been busy. From 2013 to 
2015, OSC's caseload increased from 4,500 cases open to more than 
6,100.That increase coincided with multiple scandals within the 
Veterans Administration, as Mr. Blum of Iowa has highlighted.
  In fiscal year 2016, OSC projected nearly 2,500 cases from just the 
VA--2,500 cases at just the Veterans Administration. 
Thisreauthorization will ensure the OSC has adequate funding to 
continue protecting whistleblowers in the VA and other agencies aswell. 
The majority of the OSC funding goes directly to hiring employees who 
work to protect whistleblowers.

                              {time}  1330

  The bill also makes substantive improvements to current law to 
ensurethe OSC can carry out its mission more effectively. Those reforms 
cover a few areas, ensuring agencies cooperate with the OSC,clarifying 
OSC's investigative procedures and making sure Congress receives clear 
information on whistleblower reprisalthroughout the Federal Government.
  With this bill, the OSC has clear authority to access agency records 
and to conduct itsinvestigations. For its part, the OSC must treat 
those records in the same manner of confidentiality as the agency 
would,alleviating concerns about disclosure of sensitive information.
  The bill also gives OSC needed flexibility to focus onclaims that 
deserve our attention. It will allow the agency to terminate 
duplicative claims already being pursued by the MeritSystems Protection 
Board and claims that

[[Page H74]]

exceed statutory timeframes. Agencies will also be required to submit 
reportsdetailing what actions they take as a result of these OSC 
investigations--something in Congress that we should be payingattention 
to. This reporting provision requires agencies to admit any failures in 
holding people accountable and gives Congressmuch-needed transparency.
  Finally, the bill codifies OSC's practice under the current special 
counsel of disclosing toCongress results and statistics. Codifying this 
transparency ensures the practice will continue and allow for easier 
oversightof these activities.
  In order to help protect the whistleblowers and reform the Federal 
agencies, I would urge ourcolleagues to vote ``yes'' on H.R. 69.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. CLAY.Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Virginia (Mr. Connolly), who is the ranking member of the 
GovernmentOperations Subcommittee.
  Mr. CONNOLLY. Mr. Speaker, again, I thank my friend, Mr. Clay,for his 
leadership and for his kindness.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the Thoroughly Investigating 
RetaliationAgainst Whistleblowers Act--a mouthful, but it captures what 
we are trying to do.
  I certainly appreciate Mr. Blum'sefforts to advance legislation that 
authorizes the Office of Special Counsel and protects whistleblowers in 
the FederalGovernment, an effort the Oversight and Government Reform 
Committee strives to promote when we are at our best on a 
bipartisanbasis, and I am proud to be an original cosponsor of the 
bill.
  I welcome consideration of this bill which would reaffirmCongress' 
commitment to whistleblowers, upholding the Oversight and Government 
Reform Committee's obligation to protect thosewhistleblowers that help 
identify mismanagement, waste, and fraud at Federal agencies and to 
support the oversight work ofCongress. That is Congress at its best.
  With the enactment of the Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989, OSC 
became anindependent agency within the executive branch. Its mission is 
to safeguard the merit system of protecting Federal employeesfrom 
prohibitive personnel practices, especially reprisal from 
whistleblowing. OSC provides employees a mechanism for 
disclosingwrongdoing in government agencies and provides advice on the 
Hatch Act, which restricts political activity by governmentemployees 
generally.
  OSC enforces employment rights under the Uniformed Services 
Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of1994 for Federal employees who 
serve or have served in the uniformed services. Congress last 
reauthorized OSC for the period2003 to 2007. Due in part to Congress' 
emphasis on transparency in government, OSC has experienced significant 
growth in itscaseload since its last reauthorization. In the past 5 
years, that caseload has increased, Mr. Speaker, by 58 percent.
  Thisbill reauthorizes the agency from 2016 through 2020 and makes 
several important changes to assist OSC in carrying out its 
vitalmission. The bill codifies OSC's current practice of providing 
important performance metrics in its annual reports to theCongress and 
requires additional metrics to support congressional oversight of its 
effectiveness.
  Last Congress, this billwas successfully passed out of our committee 
on, I believe, a unanimous basis. I urge my colleagues to continue 
Congress'longstanding tradition of support for oversight, 
accountability, whistleblower protection, and transparency, and vote in 
theaffirmative for the Thoroughly Investigating Retaliation Against 
Whistleblowers Act.
  Mr. CLAY. Mr.Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I would just 
urge the body to adopt the legislation.
  I yield back the balance of mytime.
  Mr. CHAFFETZ. Mr. Speaker, I urge the passage of this bill, H.R. 69. 
We have had fourgood champions led by Mr. Blum of Iowa in our committee 
who have helped put this together: Mr. Meadows of NorthCarolina, Mr. 
Connolly of Virginia, and Mr. Cummings, the ranking member out of 
Maryland. All four have come togetheras original cosponsors here in the 
115th Congress.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge its passage, and I yield back the balance of 
mytime.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Utah(Mr. Chaffetz) that the House suspend the rules and 
pass the bill, H.R. 69.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirdsbeing in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



