

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H305-H306]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   PLAYING POLITICS WITH HEALTH CARE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
New York (Ms. Velazquez) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, House Republicans are playing politics 
with millions of Americans' health care. Infact, if Republicans go 
forward with their plan to chaotically dismantle the Affordable Care 
Act, 30 million Americans will losehealth insurance. In New York State 
alone, 1.6 million of our neighbors, who gained coverage through ACA, 
will see their healthinsurance taken away; and 2.7 million New Yorkers 
who have enrolled in Medicaid could lose coverage.
  But let us remember that this is not just about New Yorkers. In fact, 
the sad irony is that many of the Americans who willlose and be most 
devastated by repeal of this law are in red States and counties, the 
places that voted for President-electTrump. Those areas have high 
numbers of Americans on the Medicaid rolls. Already, States like Idaho, 
Nebraska, South Dakota, andGeorgia are putting Medicaid expansion on 
hold, waiting to see how action on the ACA plays out. That means half a 
millionAmericans will have to wait for health benefits.
  But let's keep in mind that this is not just about Medicaid and it is 
not just about those who obtained coverage through theexchanges. What 
we need to remember is that all the elements of healthcare reform work 
together. If you start chipping away atone part of the system, you will 
see disasters in other parts of the market.
  This is about the young person, just out of college, who can stay on 
their parents' insurance until they are 26, giving themtime to secure 
employment and coverage on their own. It is about patients with a 
preexisting condition who, until the ACA, werebarred

[[Page H306]]

from securing quality medical insurance. It is about women who have, 
time and again, faced gender discrimination inthe insurance market.
  Just this past Saturday, New Yorkers in my district rallied together 
to oppose Republican plans to roll back the ACA andmake America sick 
again. We heard from our local hospitals and healthcare providers who 
talked about how they will be affectedby a dramatic surge in charity 
care. Nationally, healthcare providers could get stuck with $88 billion 
in 2019 alone and $1.1trillion from 2019 to 2028 in uncompensated care. 
This will strain resources and make it harder for them to provide care 
to alltheir patients.
  And we heard from ordinary working people who have benefited from the 
ACA, people like Juana Alvarez, who was able, for thefirst time, to 
secure coverage for herself and her family through this law. We heard 
from Susan Maples, who told us she wouldnot have been able to start her 
own business without the health benefits afforded under ACA. These are 
the people Republicansare planning to harm with their irresponsible, 
chaotic, and destructive attack on our health system.
  Now, let me also note this: The Republican slogan ``repeal and 
replace'' is a sham.
  What are they going to replace the ACA with?
  They have never--not once--put together a realistic, defensible plan 
to replace the ACA. The Republican plan is not repeal andreplace. It 
should be called ``repeal and displace'' because it will mean 
displacing millions of Americans from their healthcoverage.
  So let's be clear. If you are voting to take away the ACA, you are 
voting to take away health care from millions. And forthose who do 
retain their employer-based coverage, you are voting to increase their 
premiums, as millions of healthy Americansare taken out of the 
insurance pool. This is a recipe for disaster. It is a plan to make 
America sick again, and it cannotstand.
  I urge my colleagues to think about what you are doing. Think about 
going home and looking in the eyes of your constituentsand telling them 
you voted to take away their health coverage. Enough playing politics 
with health care.

                          ____________________



