

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 11 (Friday, January 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 11 (Friday, January 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S348-S349]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




      PEACEFUL TRANSFER OF POWER AND HOMEOWNER INSURANCE PREMIUMS

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President,today we celebrate one of our democracy's 
core attributes: the peaceful transfer of power. It is remarkable. I am 
always amazedhow voters, on a cold November evening in my State, come 
home from work--they would like to serve dinner to their kids or sit 
intheir favorite chair and watch their favorite TV show, but in quiet 
dignity, they wait in line and wait their turn to cast theirvote. Then 
everyone awaits the decision. And the next morning, we all abide by it. 
It is an amazing thing about this democracy.There are no riots and 
tanks in the streets. It is a great thing. And although I regret the 
outcome of the electionobviously--deeply--I still am awed by how the 
wellspring of democracy continues to work for 225 years after the 
Founders puttogether the remarkable document, the Constitution.
  Now it falls to us--Senators from both parties--to promote and 
defendthese principles, as we must every day: the rule of law, equal 
protection for all Americans under it, and freedom of speech,press, and 
religion. We must also endeavor to expand opportunity and increase 
prosperity while broadening the circle ofAmericans who share in it. The 
peaceful transfer of power occurred, and our work starts now.
  President Trump said in hisinaugural address this afternoon:

       For too long, a small group in our Nation's capital has 
     reapedthe rewards of government while the people have borne 
     the cost. Washington flourished--but the people did not share 
     its wealth.

  He promised to combat that trend, but in one of his first acts as 
President, President Trump made it harder forAmericans to afford a 
mortgage. For working-class Americans, struggling Americans, now it is 
harder for them

[[Page S349]]

to get amortgage. What did he do? He reversed a recent decision by the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development to reduce annualinsurance 
premiums that many borrowers pay, saving new homeowners an average of 
$500 per year. What a terrible thing to do tohomeowners. President 
Trump, with a flick of the pen, ended that new policy, making it harder 
for Americans of modest means toobtain their piece of the rock, the 
American dream: their own home. It took only an hour after his positive 
words on theinaugural platform for his words to ring hollow. And 
actions speak louder than words. One hour after talking about 
helpingworking people and ending the cabal in Washington that hurts 
people, he signs a regulation that makes it more expensive for 
newhomeowners to buy mortgages--1 hour later.
  I ask the American people--because we Democrats are going to do this. 
We are goingto hold the President accountable. Look at what the 
President said and then an hour later, look at what the President 
did.Again, actions speak louder than words. The words on that inaugural 
platform in relation to this new action ring hollow.
  Democrats agree with President Trump on this: The working men and 
women of America do not need more promises, they needpolicies that give 
them a leg up, help them succeed, help them afford a home, for 
instance. We urge President Trump to reversethis decision and give new 
homeowners across America their $500 back.

                          ____________________



