

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 55 (Wednesday, March 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 55 (Wednesday, March 29, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2098-S2099]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. INHOFE:
       S. 755. A bill to amend the Pilot's Bill of Rights to 
     facilitate appeals, to limit the reexamination of airman 
     certificates, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. 
             Booker, Mr. Coons, Mr. Peters, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. 
             Tillis, and Ms. Murkowski):
       S. 756. A bill to reauthorize and amend the Marine Debris 
     Act to promote international action to reduce marine debris, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. FLAKE:
       S. 757. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to facilitate communication between U.S. Customs and Border 
     Protection and border ranchers in Arizona and other border 
     States, and for other purposes; to the

[[Page S2099]]

     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. BURR (for himself, Mr. Tillis, Mr. Nelson, and 
             Mr. Rubio):
       S. 758. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act with 
     respect to the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease 
     Registry's review and publication of illness and conditions 
     relating to veterans stationed at Camp Lejeune, North 
     Carolina, and their family members, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. McCAIN (for himself and Mr. Enzi):
       S. 759. A bill to save taxpayers money by improving the 
     manufacturing and distribution of coins and notes, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself and Mr. Sasse):
       S. 760. A bill to expand the Government's use and 
     administration of data to facilitate transparency, effective 
     governance, and innovation, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. ALEXANDER (for himself and Mr. Corker):
       S. 761. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow individuals to receive a premium assistance credit 
     for insurance not purchased on an Exchange, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself and Mr. Wyden):
       S. 762. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to reform provisions relating to whistleblowers; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Mr. Nelson, Mrs. Fischer, 
             and Mr. Booker):
       S. 763. A bill to improve surface and maritime 
     transportation security; to the Committee on Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr. Tillis):
       S. 764. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the enrollment of veterans in certain courses of 
     education, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. PERDUE:
       S. 765. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide for penalties for the sale of any Purple Heart 
     awarded to a member of the Armed Forces; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MANCHIN:
       S. 766. A bill to amend titles 10 and 32, United States 
     Code, to improve and enhance authorities relating to the 
     employment, use, status, and benefits of military technicians 
     (dual status), and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mr. BENNET (for himself, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Booker, 
             Mr. Cardin, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Markey, Mr. Merkley, Mr. 
             Reed, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Whitehouse, Mrs. Gillibrand, 
             Mr. Udall, Ms. Cortez Masto, Mr. Heinrich, Ms. 
             Warren, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Franken, Ms. Hassan, Mr. 
             Nelson, Ms. Harris, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Coons, Mrs. 
             Feinstein, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Menendez, 
             Mr. Leahy, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Carper, Ms. Hirono, 
             Mr. Murphy, and Mr. Van Hollen):
       S. 767. A bill to provide that the Executive Order entitled 
     ``Promoting Energy Independence and Economic Growth'' and 
     signed on March 28, 2017, shall have no force or effect, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Environment and 
     Public Works.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN:
       S. 768. A bill to improve the productivity and energy 
     efficiency of the manufacturing sector by directing the 
     Secretary of Energy, in coordination with the National 
     Academies and other appropriate Federal agencies, to develop 
     a national smart manufacturing plan and to provide assistance 
     to small- and medium-sized manufacturers in implementing 
     smart manufacturing programs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself and Mr. Casey):
       S. 769. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to align physician supervision requirements under the 
     Medicare program for radiology services performed by advanced 
     level radiographers with State requirements; to the Committee 
     on Finance.
           By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. Risch, Mr. Thune, Ms. 
             Cantwell, and Mr. Nelson):
       S. 770. A bill to require the Director of the National 
     Institute of Standards and Technology to disseminate 
     resources to help reduce small business cybersecurity risks, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. FRANKEN (for himself, Mr. Sanders, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Mr. Brown, Ms. Klobuchar, Ms. Warren, Ms. 
             Baldwin, Mr. Reed, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Hassan, Mr. 
             Durbin, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Udall, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, and Mr. Booker):
       S. 771. A bill to improve access to affordable prescription 
     drugs; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. McCAIN:
       S. 772. A bill to amend the PROTECT Act to make Indian 
     tribes eligible for AMBER Alert grants; to the Committee on 
     Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr. Perdue):
       S. 773. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to modify certain rules applicable to qualified small issue 
     manufacturing bonds; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. HEITKAMP (for herself, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Franken, 
             and Mr. Booker):
       S. 774. A bill to address the psychological, developmental, 
     social, and emotional needs of children, youth, and families 
     who have experienced trauma, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.

                          ____________________



