

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H65-H67]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARY DONATION REFORM ACT OF 2017

  Mr. CHAFFETZ. Mr. Speaker, Imove to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 73) to amend title 44, United States Code, to require 
information oncontributors to Presidential library fundraising 
organizations, and for other purposes.
  The Clerk read the title of thebill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                H.R. 73

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Presidential Library 
     DonationReform Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARIES.

       (a) In General.--Section 2112of title 44, United States 
     Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
     subsection:
       ``(h) PresidentialLibrary Fundraising Organization 
     Reporting Requirement.--
       ``(1) Reporting requirement.--Not later than 15 days 
     afterthe end of a calendar quarter and until the end of the 
     requirement period described in paragraph (2), each 
     Presidential libraryfundraising organization shall submit to 
     the Archivist information for that quarter in an electronic 
     searchable and sortableformat with respect to every 
     contributor who gave the organization a contribution or 
     contributions (whether monetary or in-kind)totaling $200 or 
     more for the quarterly period.
       ``(2) Duration of reporting requirement.--The requirement 
     to submitinformation under paragraph (1) shall continue until 
     the later of the following occurs:
       ``(A) The Archivist has accepted,taken title to, or entered 
     into an agreement to use any land or facility for the 
     Presidential archival depository for thePresident for whom 
     the Presidential library fundraising organization was 
     established.
       ``(B) The President whose archivesare contained in the 
     deposit no longer holds the Office of President.
       ``(3) Information required to be published.--TheArchivist 
     shall publish on the website of the National Archives and 
     Records Administration, within 30 days after each 
     quarterlyfiling, any information that is submitted under 
     paragraph (1), without a fee or other access charge in a 
     downloadable database.
       ``(4) Submission of false material information 
     prohibited.--
       ``(A) Individual.--
       ``(i)Prohibition.--It shall be unlawful for any person who 
     makes a contribution described in paragraph (1) to knowingly 
     andwillfully submit false material information or omit 
     material information with respect to the contribution to an 
     organizationdescribed in such paragraph.
       ``(ii) Penalty.--The penalties described in section 1001 of 
     title 18, United States Code,shall apply with respect to a 
     violation of clause (i) in the same manner as a violation 
     described in such section.
       ``(B)Organization.--
       ``(i) Prohibition.--It shall be unlawful for any 
     Presidential library fundraising organization toknowingly and 
     willfully submit false material information or omit material 
     information under paragraph (1).
       ``(ii)Penalty.--The penalties described in section 1001 of 
     title 18, United States Code, shall apply with respect to a 
     violationof clause (i) in the same manner as a violation 
     described in such section.
       ``(5) Prohibition on contribution.--
       ``(A) In general.--It shall be unlawful for a person to 
     knowingly and willfully--
       ``(i) make a contributiondescribed in paragraph (1) in the 
     name of another person;
       ``(ii) permit his or her name to be used to effect a 
     contributiondescribed in paragraph (1); or
       ``(iii) accept a contribution described in paragraph (1) 
     that is made by one person in thename of another person.
       ``(B) Penalty.--The penalties set forth in section 309(d) 
     of the Federal Election Campaign Actof 1971 (2 U.S.C. 
     437g(d)) shall apply to a violation of subparagraph (A) in 
     the same manner as if such violation were aviolation of 
     section 316(b)(3) of such Act (2 U.S.C. 441b(b)(3)).
       ``(6) Regulations required.--The Archivist shallpromulgate 
     regulations for the purpose of carrying out this subsection.
       ``(7) Definitions.--In this subsection:
       ``(A) Information.--The term `information' means the 
     following:
       ``(i) The amount or value of each contributionmade by a 
     contributor referred to in paragraph (1) in the quarter 
     covered by the submission.
       ``(ii) The source of each suchcontribution, and the address 
     of the entity or individual that is the source of the 
     contribution.
       ``(iii) If the source ofsuch a contribution is an 
     individual, the occupation of the individual.
       ``(iv) The date of each such contribution.
       ``(B) Presidential library fundraising organization.--The 
     term `Presidential library fundraising organization' means 
     anorganization that is established for the purpose of raising 
     funds for creating, maintaining, expanding, or conducting 
     activitiesat--
       ``(i) a Presidential archival depository; or
       ``(ii) any facilities relating to a Presidential 
     archivaldepository.''.
       (b) Applicability.--Section 2112(h) of title 44, United 
     States Code (as added by subsection (a))--
       (1) shall apply to an organization established for the 
     purpose of raising funds for creating, maintaining, 
     expanding, orconducting activities at a Presidential archival 
     depository or any facilities relating to a Presidential 
     archival depositorybefore, on, or after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act; and
       (2) shall only apply with respect to contributions 
     (whethermonetary or in-kind) made after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act.

     SEC. 3. NO ADDITIONALFUNDS AUTHORIZED.

       No additional funds are authorized to carry out the 
     requirements of this Act and the amendments made bythis Act. 
     Such requirements shall be carried out using amounts 
     otherwise authorized.

  The SPEAKERpro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from Utah 
(Mr. Chaffetz) and the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Clay)each will 
control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Utah.


                             General Leave

  Mr. CHAFFETZ. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative daysin which to revise and extend their remarks 
and to include extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKERpro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Utah?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. CHAFFETZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. Duncan),who has championed this effort 
for quite a while. He is passionate about this, and he has poured his 
heart and soul into it.
  Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee. I thank the chairman for yielding to me and 
for his support of thislegislation.
  Mr. Speaker, this is very simple, bipartisan legislation that would 
require organizers of Presidentiallibraries to disclose the identities 
of donors and the amounts they give. It wouldn't limit any donations; 
it would simplyrequire disclosure. I introduced this legislation 
several Congresses ago because I felt then and feel now that the public 
shouldbe made aware of possible conflicts of interest that sitting 
Presidents can have or may have while raising funds for theirlibraries.
  First of all, I thank Ranking Member Cummings for again cosponsoring 
this very important legislation andmaking it bipartisan. The 
legislation is so bipartisan that, after the first time we passed the 
bill--and it passed 392-3--itwas taken over, at my request and with my 
agreement, by then-Chairman Waxman, who made it his bill. We passed it 
once again, andwe passed it in the last Congress by a simple voice 
vote, so there is a lot of support for this bill. In the Senate, it 
wasintroduced by Mr. Carper and Mr. Coburn, when he was in the Senate. 
We need to get some

[[Page H66]]

more interest over there, andI think we are going to be able to do that 
in this Congress.
  Mr. Speaker, we do not know who these donors to thePresidential 
libraries are or what interests they may have on any pending policy 
decisions that are to be made. I think that ourgovernment needs to 
operate in the open, not with secrecy. This legislation will apply to 
all future Presidential libraries andmandate, regardless of party, that 
the names of the donors and the amounts they contribute be disclosed. I 
would like to addthat this legislation will apply to President Trump's 
future Presidential library. This will require him to disclose more 
thanany other President has ever had to disclose before. This will be 
an unprecedented disclosure, and it falls in line with hisstated desire 
to drain the swamp. Any sitting President has a great deal of power. 
Funds should not be raised for a Presidentiallibrary in his honor 
without some type of public disclosure.
  I decided to introduce this bill after news reports surroundinga 
proposed Presidential library exposed that foreign governments from the 
Middle East were making very large donations. Then, in2007, The 
Washington Post reported that President Clinton's Presidential library 
raised a substantial percentage of the cost ofits facility with foreign 
contributions. However, this is not a partisan issue. I have introduced 
this and supported thislegislation under both Democratic and Republican 
Presidents. The Presidential Library Donation Reform Act of 2017 would 
bringclarity to the process of planning and building these Presidential 
libraries.
  In 2013, Sunlight Foundation Policy DirectorDaniel Schuman endorsed 
an earlier version of this bill during a hearing in front of our House 
Oversight and Government ReformCommittee, where he said it ``would 
provide valuable information on special interests whose donations put 
them in closeproximity with Presidents.''
  Even Richard Cohen, the very liberal columnist for The Washington 
Post, once said about thisbill: ``But surely it would be anything from 
interesting to illustrative to just plain damning to see what names are 
on thatlist and for what amounts.'' Our citizens have the right to know 
the details of these fundraising activities.
  This bill hasbeen introduced by the Center for Media and Democracy; 
the Center for Responsive Politics; the Citizens for Responsibility 
andEthics in Washington, often known as CREW; Common Cause; Public 
Citizen; the Society of Professional Journalists; and manyothers.
  USA Today wrote a very favorable editorial about this bill, and it 
has been mentioned favorably in many publicationsacross the years. I 
think it is a bill that everybody on both sides of the aisle can 
support, and I ask my colleagues to supportthis very bipartisan 
legislation.
  Mr. CLAY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I thank my long-time friend Representative Duncan and Ranking Member 
Cummings for sponsoring this bill.Representative Duncan first sponsored 
a bill to improve Presidential libraries 17 years ago. I hope we can 
now, finally,get this important legislation enacted.
  The Presidential Library Donation Reform Act would make the process 
for buildingPresidential libraries more transparent. Presidential 
libraries have become increasingly more expensive as they have 
evolvedinto multipurpose centers. The George W. Bush Presidential 
Center cost an estimated $250 million to build, and President 
Bushraised, approximately, $500 million for the building and an 
endowment for his library, museum, and institute.
  Under currentlaw, there is no requirement to disclose the identities 
of those who donate to a Presidential library and to a President 
whilehe is still in office. He is able to raise an unlimited amount of 
private donations. Requiring the disclosures of donors wouldhelp 
prevent the trading of political favors in exchange for donations.
  This bill would require organizations that raisemoney to build 
Presidential libraries to disclose the identity of any individual who 
donates more than $200. The National Archives and Records 
Administration would then be required to post the donation 
informationonline. The bill would also create criminal penalties for 
individuals who report false information on donations and 
forfundraising organizations that omit donation information.

  As was mentioned earlier, a group of 15 good governmentorganizations, 
including CREW and the Sunlight Foundation, sent a letter that urged 
the House to support this bill. Here is whatthey wrote:

       Under the current opaque system, Presidents raise funds 
     privately to establish theirPresidential libraries.
       These efforts, which often begin long before they leave 
     office, are unregulated and undisclosed,creating 
     opportunities for--or the appearance of--influence peddling. 
     Improved transparency would help reduce the appearance 
     ofimpropriety and help deter any inappropriate behavior.

  This bill was approved, without opposition, by the Committee 
onOversight and Government Reform, and it passed the House last year 
without opposition. I urge every Member of this body tosupport this 
bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. CHAFFETZ. Mr.Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  As has been highlighted here by Mr. Clay and by me, there is 
goodbipartisan work that has gone on for far too long. It is time to 
pass this bill. I really do appreciate the good work Mr.Duncan of 
Tennessee has done and the work of Ranking Member Cummings of Maryland.
  The Presidential LibraryDonation Reform Act of 2017 is the type of 
good-government, bipartisan legislation that is perfect to be one of 
the first billsto pass out of the 115th Congress. Last Congress, this 
legislation passed through the committee by regular order and passed 
theHouse of Representatives without opposition.
  President Franklin Roosevelt established the first Presidential 
library in1939. Since then, every former President since Herbert Hoover 
has had a library dedicated to his Presidential records. Each ofthe 13 
current libraries is managed and operated by the National Archives and 
Records Administration at an annual cost ofroughly $75 million. While 
these facilities are operated at taxpayer expense, the construction of 
these libraries is privatelyfinanced through donations.
  As the volume of records for each President has increased over the 
years, so have constructioncosts. For example, when it opened in 2004, 
the Clinton Presidential Center, in part, cost approximately $165 
million.

                              {time}  1300

  Nine years later, the George W. Bush Presidential Center, which 
openedin 2013, cost about $250 million. The Chicago Tribune has 
reported that President Obama's library might cost as much as 
$500million.
  Despite these escalating costs, there are no transparency 
requirements for Presidential library fundraisingorganizations. Here, 
transparency is important and very much needed.
  This bill will require Presidential library fundraisingorganizations 
to disclose to the National Archives contributions in excess of $200 in 
any fiscal quarter in a searchable andsortable format. In turn, the 
National Archives will post this data online.
  This disclosure requirement would end oncecontrol of a library 
facility is transferred to the National Archives. This ensures 
compliance costs of this legislation areminimal for both fundraising 
organizations and the National Archives.
  This legislation is bipartisan. It is not intended totarget any one 
individual. The Presidential Library Donation Reform Act has passed the 
House four times since 2002, withoverwhelming support with both 
Democratic and Republican majorities in place at the time.
  I would like to, again, highlightand thank my colleague, 
Representative Duncan. I do appreciate his efforts on this. I do hope 
that the 115th Congress isthe time that the Senate will see fit to pass 
this bill to the President's desk.
  I have no additional speakers.
  Ireserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. CLAY. Mr. Speaker, I have no additional speakers, and I justurge 
this body to adopt the legislation.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. CHAFFETZ.Mr. Speaker, I urge its passage.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKERpro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by

[[Page H67]]

the gentleman from Utah (Mr. Chaffetz) that the House suspendthe rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 73.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules weresuspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



