

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 6 (Tuesday, January 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 6 (Tuesday, January 10, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H270-H273]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




    INSPIRING THE NEXT SPACE PIONEERS, INNOVATORS, RESEARCHERS, AND 
                     EXPLORERS (INSPIRE) WOMEN ACT

  Mrs. COMSTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 321) to inspire women to enter the aerospace field, 
including science, technology, engineering, and mathematics, through 
mentorship and outreach.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                H.R. 321

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Inspiring the Next Space 
     Pioneers, Innovators, Researchers, and Explorers (INSPIRE) 
     Women Act''.

     SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

       The Congress finds that--
       (1) NASA GIRLS and NASA BOYS are virtual mentoring programs 
     using commercially available video chat programs to pair 
     National Aeronautics and Space Administration mentors with 
     young students anywhere in the country. NASA GIRLS and NASA 
     BOYS give young students the opportunity to interact and 
     learn from real engineers, scientists, and technologists.
       (2) The Aspire to Inspire (A2I) program engages young girls 
     to present science, technology, engineering, and mathematics 
     (STEM) career opportunities through the real lives and jobs 
     of early career women at NASA.
       (3) The Summer Institute in Science, Technology, 
     Engineering, and Research (SISTER) program at the Goddard 
     Space Flight Center is designed to increase awareness of, and 
     provide an opportunity for, female middle school students to 
     be exposed to and explore nontraditional career fields with 
     Goddard Space Flight Center women engineers, mathematicians, 
     scientists, technicians, and researchers.

     SEC. 3. SUPPORTING WOMEN'S INVOLVEMENT IN THE FIELDS OF 
                   AEROSPACE AND SPACE EXPLORATION.

       The Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space 
     Administration shall encourage women and girls to study 
     science, technology, engineering, and mathematics, pursue 
     careers in aerospace, and further advance the Nation's space 
     science and exploration efforts through support of the 
     following initiatives:
       (1) NASA GIRLS and NASA BOYS.
       (2) Aspire to Inspire.
       (3) Summer Institute in Science, Technology, Engineering, 
     and Research.

     SEC. 4. PLAN.

       Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this 
     Act, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on 
     Science, Space, and Technology of the House of 
     Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation of the Senate a plan for how NASA can best 
     facilitate and support both current and retired astronauts, 
     scientists, engineers, and innovators, including early career 
     female astronauts, scientists, engineers, and innovators, to 
     engage with K-12 female STEM students and inspire the next 
     generation of women to consider participating in the fields 
     of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics and to 
     pursue careers in aerospace. This plan shall--
       (1) report on existing activities with current and retired 
     NASA astronauts, scientists, engineers, and innovators;
       (2) identify how NASA could best leverage existing 
     authorities to facilitate and support current and retired 
     astronaut, scientist, engineer, and innovator participation 
     in NASA outreach efforts;
       (3) propose and describe a program specific to retired 
     astronauts, scientists, engineers, and innovators; and
       (4) identify any additional authorities necessary to 
     institute such a program.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentlewoman from

[[Page H271]]

Virginia (Mrs. Comstock) and the gentlewoman from Connecticut (Ms. 
Esty) each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Virginia.


                             General Leave

  Mrs. COMSTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and to 
include extraneous material on H.R. 321, the bill now under 
consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentlewoman from Virginia?
  There was no objection.
  Mrs. COMSTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  I rise to offer H.R. 321, the INSPIRE Act. I am pleased to lead this 
effort along with the chairman and ranking member of the Science, 
Space, and Technology Committee, Lamar Smith and Eddie Bernice Johnson, 
as well as Congresswoman Esty.
  We did pass this bill last year and now we are revisiting it since it 
didn't get through the Senate.
  Recently, the movie, ``Hidden Figures,'' was released detailing a few 
of the unsung heroes of NASA. This movie highlights the moving story of 
a group of African American women who worked at NASA at a historic time 
in the 1960s as mathematicians during the space race.
  Katherine Johnson, Dorothy Vaughan, and Mary Jackson were featured in 
the movie for their work that launched America into space.
  In a recent interview with the LA Times, Ms. Johnson, who is still 
living, was asked: ``At the time, did you know that John Glenn asked 
for `the girl' (which would be you) to check the numbers before he took 
his landmark flight into space? Did it heighten the stakes for you?''
  Ms. Johnson's response: ``I knew they asked me to check the numbers. 
That was what I did. They knew my record for accuracy. I knew and had 
confidence in my math, so I did it. I always did my best.''
  Mr. Speaker, I didn't know the story of these women growing up, even 
though they were doing these things at a time when we were all watching 
these things happen. But now today's young women well know that story. 
It is an inspiring story. It is one of those movies Ms. Esty and I were 
speaking about yesterday that were on our list of must-sees.
  These women were critical to the success of our astronauts and our 
space program that would eventually put a man on the Moon. Now is the 
time to pass this legislation that will afford opportunities to a 
future generation of women leaders who will have a similar impact on 
our Nation's history, and maybe, one day, put a woman on Mars.
  The INSPIRE Act authorizes the NASA administrator to encourage young 
women to study mathematics, known as the STEM fields, and to pursue 
careers that will further advance America's space science and 
exploration efforts through support of NASA initiatives such as NASA 
GIRLS, Aspire 2 Inspire, and the Summer Institute in Science, 
Technology, Engineering, and Research--SISTER.
  The goal of NASA GIRLS is to create a virtual mentoring project that 
offers a one-of-a-kind experience to middle school students using 
online capabilities.
  NASA's vision for Aspire 2 Inspire was to reach out to young girls 
and present some of the STEM career opportunities through the real 
lives and jobs of early career women at NASA.
  The SISTER program is designed to increase awareness of and provide 
an opportunity for female middle school students to be exposed to and 
explore nontraditional career fields with Goddard Space Flight Center 
women engineers, mathematicians, scientists, technicians, and 
researchers. According to NASA, 58 women have traveled in space. Forty-
nine of those have flown with NASA.
  Of course, there are so many other careers available for women in 
NASA, and we want to make sure all of those are available for them. We 
know the stories of women like Sally Ride and Mae Jemison, but, 
ironically, we didn't know these hidden figures that are behind the 
scene. So now, as we move forward under this program, we hope everyone 
will know about the many women and the many careers open to both men 
and women in this NASA program.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. ESTY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I rise in support of H.R. 321, the INSPIRE Women Act.
  This bill calls on the NASA administrator to support initiatives that 
encourage girls and young women to study STEM fields and pursue careers 
in aerospace. Unfortunately, women are woefully underrepresented in 
many STEM fields, including aeronautics and aerospace. One of the key 
barriers to women entering technical fields is self-selection out of 
STEM degrees due to a lack of role models.
  In the words of longtime children's advocate and activist, Marian 
Wright Edelman: ``You can't be what you can't see.''
  Too many girls and young women decide not to pursue studies in 
technical fields such as science, engineering, and aerospace because 
they look at their teachers and their role models and they see no one 
who looks like them.
  When students are able to visualize themselves working in technical 
fields, they gain the confidence they need to take the first step in 
pursuit of a challenging and rewarding STEM career, to their benefit 
and to the benefit of society as a whole.
  NASA, with its extraordinary STEM workforce, is in a unique position 
to help close this gap. The agency has access to a diverse group of 
current and retired women astronauts, scientists, engineers, 
mathematicians, and innovators whose accomplishments and career paths 
are just the sort of inspiration that girls and young women need.
  Astronaut Kate Rubins broke barriers and boundaries when she became 
the first person to ever sequence DNA in space during her spaceflight 
last year.
  Just last Friday, Peggy Whitson, the first female commander of the 
International Space Station, completed her seventh space walk.

  Vera Rubin's recent passing reminded us of her trailblazing career in 
astronomy in which she made the groundbreaking discovery of dark 
matter.
  As has already been mentioned by my friend and colleague, Barbara 
Comstock, the newly released movie, ``Hidden Figures,'' highlights 
through the pioneering story of early NASA mathematicians and engineers 
Katherine Johnson, Dorothy Vaughan, and Mary Jackson that women have 
been instrumental to our aerospace enterprise since its inception.
  NASA has developed a number of programs aimed at leveraging its 
inspirational workforce to encourage girls and young women to pursue 
STEM degrees and STEM careers. This includes the NASA GIRLS program, 
the Aspire 2 Inspire program, and the Summer Institute in Science, 
Technology, Engineering, and Research, or SISTER program.
  H.R. 321 instructs the NASA administrator to continue supporting 
these and other programs that encourage women and girls to study 
science, technology, engineering, and mathematics, as well as to pursue 
careers in aerospace.
  Additionally, the bill calls on NASA to develop a plan for how it can 
best facilitate and support current and retired astronauts, scientists, 
engineers, and innovators to engage with K-12 female STEM students.
  Although retired engineers, astronauts, scientists, and engineers are 
invaluable to inspiring the next generation of NASA scientists, I am 
especially glad and thankful to my colleague for including early career 
female astronauts, scientists, engineers, and innovators in this plan. 
It is very important for America's young girls to have experiences 
interacting with young women who look like them in the STEM fields.
  I thank my Science, Space, and Technology Committee colleague, 
Representative Comstock, for her leadership on the bill, as well as our 
esteemed chairman, Lamar Smith, and our wonderful ranking member, Eddie 
Bernice Johnson.
  I urge my colleagues to support this bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mrs. COMSTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Costello).

[[Page H272]]

  

  Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of 
H.R. 321, the INSPIRE Women Act, and commend the leadership of 
Congresswoman Comstock and Congresswoman Esty on this bill, which I am 
pleased to also cosponsor.
  We should be doing all we can to encourage young women who wish to 
study or follow a STEM career path, and Congresswoman Comstock has 
introduced this commonsense bill to achieve that goal.
  H.R. 321 would require NASA to support astronauts, scientists, and 
engineers who have retired in their efforts to encourage young women 
who are interested in studying or working in a STEM field.
  Mr. Speaker, innovative thinkers are critical to our country's 
success in the modern global workforce. But we have heard the 
statistics. Women make up half of the U.S. workforce and half of the 
college educated workforce. Yet, only 25 percent of women who attain 
degrees in the STEM field actually end up working in STEM jobs.
  That is why I support this bill and that is why I think the aims of 
this bill are very laudable and could go a long way toward closing that 
gap. It is an important effort to improve retention of women studying 
and working in STEM fields.
  I thank again Congresswomen Comstock and Esty for their leadership.
  Ms. ESTY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Texas (Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson), my ranking member.
  Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of 
H.R. 321, the Inspiring the Next Space Pioneers, Innovators, 
Researchers, and Explorers Women Act.
  I want to express my appreciation for the leadership of Congresswoman 
Esty and Congresswoman Comstock.
  This bill would help ensure that the incoming administration 
continues to promote and strengthen important programs at NASA to 
inspire and mentor girls and young women to pursue studies and careers 
in STEM areas.
  Despite progress in the right direction, women remain largely 
underrepresented in STEM fields because they continue to face cultural 
and institutional barriers throughout their studies and career 
progression.
  H.R. 321 would support existing programs at NASA that encourage young 
girls and women to study STEM fields and pursue careers in aerospace.

                              {time}  1600

  These programs include NASA GIRLS, a virtual mentoring program; 
Aspire to Inspire, a program connecting young girls with women in STEM 
careers at NASA; and a summer institute program that increases 
awareness and exposes young, middle school girls to the STEM careers at 
NASA.
  H.R. 321 also calls on NASA to develop a plan for how best to use its 
current and retired workforce to mentor female K-12 students. What 
comes to mind are the inspirational women who are featured in the new 
movie ``Hidden Figures.'' Those brilliant and brave women opened the 
door for so many who followed. We must continue to support our great 
women in STEM who dedicate their time to mentor the girls and young 
women who will be our next scientists, engineers, and innovators.
  I thank my colleagues again--Representative Comstock for her 
leadership on this bill and Representative Esty. I strongly support 
this bill and encourage my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to 
pass it.
  Mrs. COMSTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. ESTY. Mr. Speaker, again, I thank my esteemed colleagues for 
their leadership on this, in particular, Representative Comstock from 
Virginia and the ranking member.
  This is a very laudable bill that plays an important role in 
inspiring the next generation of STEM engineers and scientists, and I 
am pleased that we are able to offer this again. This did pass in the 
last Congress. Unfortunately, it did not make it through the Senate. I 
am delighted that we are moving early in this session and would urge 
all of my colleagues to swiftly pass this, to send it to the Senate, 
and to get it on the President's desk and make sure these important 
programs are supported long into the future.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mrs. COMSTOCK. Mr. Speaker, we have had over 65 cosponsors this year 
on the bill, as was mentioned by my colleague. It had strong bipartisan 
support last year and it has also been introduced now in the Senate, so 
we certainly hope it will move through quickly.
  Eileen Collins, who became the first female to command and pilot a 
spacecraft, was asked to give advice to future astronauts. She stated:

       My advice to young people is to go into the field you are 
     most interested in. If you love your job, you will do well in 
     your job.

  I think what we have all discussed here today is, when you can see 
that job and when you can see people who look like you--see women and 
people from all walks of life in those positions--and the Internet 
allows us to do that now, then you can really have that kind of 
exposure, which is quite exciting.
  I appreciate the opportunity to, once again, present this bill, and I 
ask my colleagues to join me in support.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Speaker, science, technology, engineering and 
math are critical to America's future prosperity.
  Women are unfortunately underrepresented in STEM careers. Despite 
representing nearly half of the college-educated and total U.S. 
workforce, women account for less than 25 percent of America's STEM 
workforce.
  Supporting women's involvement in the fields of aerospace and space 
exploration should be an important part of NASA's mission.
  Current NASA programs such as NASA GIRLS and NASA BOYS are important 
and give young students the opportunity to interact and learn from real 
NASA engineers, scientists, and technologists.
  They provide virtual mentoring that use commercially available video 
chat programs to pair NASA innovators with young students across the 
country.
  H.R. 321 builds upon this success. It leverages NASA's talent pool of 
current and retired astronauts, and early career female scientists, 
engineers, and innovators to inform and inspire young women to pursue 
their dreams in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. One 
day, these young people will push the boundaries of space.
  Space can be a catalyst for inspiring young girls to enter the STEM 
fields. By doing our part to support their engagement in space with 
this legislation, we are investing in the futures of our daughters, 
nieces, and grandchildren.
  I again want to thank the bill sponsor, Research and Technology 
Subcommittee Chairwoman Comstock for her leadership on this topic. I 
encourage my colleagues to support this bill.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 321, 
the INSPIRE Women, Act.
  I support this legislation because Article 1 Section 8 of the United 
States Constitution states our duty ``To promote the Progress of 
Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and 
Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and 
Discoveries . . .''
  This includes the education of our next generation of women 
considering participation in the fields of science, technology, 
engineering, and mathematics and to pursue careers in aerospace.
  Statistics show that women remain underrepresented in the science and 
engineering workforce, although to a lesser degree than in the past, 
with the greatest disparities occurring in engineering, computer 
science, and the physical sciences (NSF, Science & Engineering 
Indicators, 2014).
  1. Female scientists and engineers are concentrated in different 
occupations than are men, with relatively high shares of women in the 
social sciences (58 percent)
  2. biological and medical sciences (48 percent)
  3. relatively low shares in engineering (13 percent)
  4. computer and mathematical sciences (25 percent) (NSF, Science & 
Engineering Indicators, 2014).
  Women make up 47 percent of the total U.S. workforce, but are much 
less represented in particular science and engineering occupations 
(U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, Women in the 
Labor Force: A Databook, 2014):
  1. 39 percent of chemists and material scientists are women;
  2. 27.9 percent of environmental scientists and geoscientists are 
women;
  3. 15.6 percent of chemical engineers are women;
  4. 12.1 percent of civil engineers are women;
  5. 8.3 percent of electrical and electronics engineers are women;

[[Page H273]]

  6. 17.2 percent of industrial engineers are women; and
  7. 7.2 percent of mechanical engineers are women.
  These statistics show that measures need to be taken in order to 
promote women participation in the fields of science, technology, 
engineering, and mathematics and to pursue careers in aerospace.
  H.R. 321 will support NASA GIRLS and NASA BOYS, virtual mentoring 
programs using commercially available video chat programs, to pair 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration mentors with young 
students anywhere in the country.
  NASA GIRLS and NASA BOYS give young students the opportunity to 
interact and learn from real engineers, scientists, and technologists.
  H.R. 321 will also support the ``Aspire to Inspire'' Program (A2I), 
which engages young girls to present science, technology, engineering, 
and mathematics (STEM) career opportunities through the real lives and 
jobs of early career women at NASA.
  H.R. 321 also promotes the Summer Institute in Science, Technology, 
Engineering, and Research (SISTER) program at the Goddard Space Flight 
Center designed to increase awareness of, and provide an opportunity 
for, female middle school students to be exposed to and explore 
nontraditional career fields with Goddard Space Flight Center women 
engineers, mathematicians, scientists, technicians, and researchers.
  Let me close by urging all Members to join me in voting to pass H.R. 
321.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentlewoman from Virginia (Mrs. Comstock) that the House suspend the 
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 321.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



