

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 35 (Tuesday, February 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 35 (Tuesday, February 28, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1501-S1502]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 14

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 14, a bill to provide that 
Members of Congress may not receive pay after October 1 of any fiscal 
year in which Congress has not approved a concurrent resolution on the 
budget and passed the regular appropriations bills.


                                 S. 27

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 27, a bill to 
establish an independent commission to examine and report on the facts 
regarding the extent of Russian official and unofficial cyber 
operations and other attempts to interfere in the 2016 United States 
national election, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 92

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the names of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin), the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) and the 
Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) were added as cosponsors of S. 92, a 
bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to allow for the 
personal importation of safe and affordable drugs from approved 
pharmacies in Canada.


                                 S. 96

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 96, a bill to 
amend the Communications Act of 1934 to ensure the integrity of voice 
communications and to prevent unjust or unreasonable discrimination 
among areas of the United States in the delivery of such 
communications.


                                 S. 145

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 145, a bill to require the 
Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture to more 
efficiently develop domestic sources of the minerals and mineral 
materials of strategic and critical importance to the economic and 
national security and manufacturing competitiveness of the United 
States, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 236, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic 
beverages.


                                 S. 242

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Thune) was added as a cosponsor of S. 242, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to permit veterans to grant access to 
their records in the databases of the Veterans Benefits Administration 
to certain designated congressional employees, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 253

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 253, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to repeal the Medicare outpatient rehabilitation 
therapy caps.


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez), the 
Senator from Arizona (Mr. McCain), the Senator from Virginia (Mr. 
Kaine) and the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 266, a bill to award the Congressional Gold Medal to 
Anwar Sadat in recognition of his heroic achievements and courageous 
contributions to peace in the Middle East.


                                 S. 298

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 298, a bill to 
require Senate candidates to file designations, statements, and reports 
in electronic form.


                                 S. 300

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 300, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to require that return 
information from tax-exempt organizations be made available in a 
searchable format and to provide the disclosure of the identity of 
contributors to certain tax-exempt organizations.


                                 S. 307

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 307, a bill to enhance 
the database of emergency response capabilities of the Department of 
Defense.


                                 S. 329

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 329, a bill to place 
restrictions on the use of solitary confinement for juveniles in 
Federal custody.


                                 S. 340

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) was added as a cosponsor of S. 340, a bill to 
clarify Congressional intent regarding the regulation of the use of 
pesticides in or near navigable waters, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 341

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 341, a bill to provide for congressional 
oversight of actions to waive, suspend, reduce, provide relief from, or 
otherwise limit the application of sanctions with respect to the 
Russian Federation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 379

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the names of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Bennet) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 379, a bill to amend title II of the 
Social Security Act to eliminate the five month waiting period for 
disability insurance benefits under such title for individuals with 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 407, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the railroad track 
maintenance credit.


                                 S. 422

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the names of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) and the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. 
Kennedy) were added as cosponsors of S. 422, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to clarify presumptions relating to the exposure of 
certain veterans who served in the vicinity of the Republic of Vietnam, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 438

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr. 
Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 438, a bill to encourage 
effective, voluntary investments to recruit,

[[Page S1502]]

employ, and retain men and women who have served in the United States 
military with annual Federal awards to employers recognizing such 
efforts, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 445, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure more timely 
access to home health services for Medicare beneficiaries under the 
Medicare program.
     On page S1502, February 28, 2017, in the first column, the 
     following appears: S. 446. At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the 
     name of the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Lankford) was added as 
     a cosponsor of S. 446, a bill to allow reciprocity for the 
     carrying of certain concealed firearms.
       The online Record has been corrected to read: S. 445. At 
     the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from 
     Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 445, 
     a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to 
     ensure more timely access to home health services for 
     Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare program. S. 446. At 
     the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from 
     Oklahoma (Mr. Lankford) was added as a cosponsor of S. 446, a 
     bill to allow reciprocity for the carrying of certain 
     concealed firearms.


                                 S. 446

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) was added as a cosponsor of S. 446, a bill to allow 
reciprocity for the carrying of certain concealed firearms.


                                 S. 455

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 455, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to count resident time spent in a 
critical access hospital as resident time spent in a nonprovider 
setting for purposes of making Medicare direct and indirect graduate 
medical education payments.


                                 S. 459

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. McCain) was added as a cosponsor of S. 459, a bill to designate 
the area between the intersections of Wisconsin Avenue, Northwest and 
Davis Street, Northwest and Wisconsin Avenue, Northwest and Edmunds 
Street, Northwest in Washington, District of Columbia, as ``Boris 
Nemtsov Plaza'', and for other purposes.


                               S. RES. 70

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the names of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were 
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 70, a resolution recognizing the 75th 
anniversary of Executive Order 9066 and expressing the sense of the 
Senate that policies that discriminate against any individual based on 
the actual or perceived race, ethnicity, national origin, or religion 
of that individual would be a repetition of the mistakes of Executive 
Order 9066 and contrary to the values of the United States.

                          ____________________



