

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H98-H99]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




CONGRESSIONALEARMARKS, LIMITED TAX BENEFITS, OR LIMITED TARIFF BENEFITS

  Under clause 9 of rule XXI, lists or statements on 
congressionalearmarks, limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits 
were submitted as follows:

                        Offered By Mr. Goodlatte

       The provisions that warranted a referral to the Committee 
     on Judiciary in H.R. 21 do notcontain any congressional 
     earmarks, limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as 
     defined in clause 9 of ruleXXI.

                        Offered By Mr. Sessions

       The provisions that warranted a referral to the Committeeon 
     Rules in H.R. 21 do not contain any congressional earmarks, 
     limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined 
     inclause 9 of rule XXI.

                         Offered By Mrs. Black

       The provisions that warranted a referralto the Committee on 
     the Budget in H.R. 26, the Regulations from the Executive in 
     Need of Scrutiny Act of 2017, do not containany congressional 
     earmarks, limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as 
     defined in clause 9 of rule XXI.

                        Offered By Mr. Goodlatte

       The provisions that warranted a referral to the Committee 
     on Judiciary inH.R. 26 do not contain any congressional 
     earmarks, limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as 
     defined in clause 9 ofrule XXI.

[[Page H99]]

  


                        Offered By Mr. Sessions

       The provisions that warranted a referralto the Committee on 
     Rules in H.R. 26 do not contain any congressional earmarks, 
     limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefitsas defined in 
     clause 9 of rule XXI.
       The amendment to be offered by Representative Conaway, or a 
     designee, to H.R. 238,the Commodity End-User Relief Act, does 
     not contain any congressional earmarks, limited tax benefits, 
     or limited tariff benefitsas defined in clause 9 of rule XXI.


