

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 10 (Tuesday, January 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 10 (Tuesday, January 17, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S343]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 11

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 11, a bill to recognize Jerusalem 
as the capital of Israel, to relocate to Jerusalem the United States 
Embassy in Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 17

  At the request of Mr. Sasse, the names of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Risch), the Senator from Utah (Mr. Lee), the Senator from Montana (Mr. 
Daines), the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Young), the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. McCain), the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Lankford), the Senator 
from North Carolina (Mr. Tillis), the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Portman) 
and the Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) were added as cosponsors 
of S. 17, a bill to ensure the Government Accountability Office has 
adequate access to information.


                                 S. 47

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. Flake) was added as a cosponsor of S. 47, a bill to prevent 
proposed regulations relating to restrictions on liquidation of an 
interest with respect to estate, gift, and generation-skipping transfer 
taxes from taking effect.


                                 S. 66

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 66, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to permit certain retired members of the 
uniformed services who have a service-connected disability to receive 
both disability compensation from the Department of Veterans Affairs 
for their disability and either retired pay by reason of their years of 
military service or Combat-Related Special Compensation, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 71

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 71, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to temporarily allow expensing of certain costs of 
replanting citrus plants lost by reason of casualty.


                                 S. 87

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the names of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) and the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 87, a bill to ensure that State and local law 
enforcement may cooperate with Federal officials to protect our 
communities from violent criminals and suspected terrorists who are 
illegally present in the United States.


                              S.J. RES. 4

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 4, a joint 
resolution disapproving the action of the District of Columbia Council 
in approving the Death with Dignity Act of 2016.


                               S. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) were added 
as cosponsors of S. Res. 6, a resolution objecting to United Nations 
Security Council Resolution 2334 and to all efforts that undermine 
direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians for a secure 
and peaceful settlement.


                               S. RES. 9

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. McCain) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 9, a resolution 
honoring in praise and remembrance the extraordinary life, steady 
leadership, and remarkable, 70-year reign of King Bhumibol Adulyadej of 
Thailand.

                          ____________________



