

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 21 (Tuesday, February 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 21 (Tuesday, February 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1079-H1084]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself, Ms. Sinema, 
             and Ms. Sewell of Alabama):
       H.R. 898. A bill to require Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to 
     establish procedures for considering certain credit scores in 
     making a determination whether to purchase a residential 
     mortgage, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. MASSIE (for himself, Mr. Amash, Mr. Biggs, Mr. 
             Chaffetz, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. 
             Jones, and Mr. Labrador):
       H.R. 899. A bill to terminate the Department of Education; 
     to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. GUTIERREZ:
       H.R. 900. A bill to recognize Puerto Rico's sovereign 
     nationhood under either independence or free association and 
     to provide for a transition process, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CUMMINGS (for himself, Mrs. Love, Mr. Conyers, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New 
             York, Ms. Bass, and Mr. Labrador):
       H.R. 901. A bill to place restrictions on the use of 
     solitary confinement for juveniles in Federal custody; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, 
             Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Himes, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Peters, Mr. Rush, Mr. 
             Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Sablan, and Ms. Jenkins of Kansas):
       H.R. 902. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the authority of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
     hire psychiatrists; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina (for himself, Mr. 
             Rogers of Alabama, Mr. Byrne, and Mr. Lamborn):
       H.R. 903. A bill to restrict funding for the Preparatory 
     Commission for the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty 
     Organization, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. LIPINSKI (for himself, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Ms. 
             Shea-Porter, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Nolan, Ms. Norton, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, Mrs. Bustos, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. 
             Carson of Indiana, and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 904. A bill to amend chapter 83 of title 41, United 
     States Code, to increase the requirement for American-made 
     content, to strengthen the waiver provisions, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and in addition to the Committees on Financial 
     Services, Transportation and Infrastructure, Energy and 
     Commerce, Agriculture, Natural Resources, and Homeland 
     Security, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. FARENTHOLD (for himself and Mr. Polis):
       H.R. 905. A bill to amend title 17, United States Code, to 
     provide that the first sale doctrine applies to any computer 
     program that enables a machine or other product to operate, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FARENTHOLD (for himself, Mr. Goodlatte, and Mr. 
             Marino):
       H.R. 906. A bill to amend title 11 of the United States 
     Code to require the public disclosure by trusts established 
     under section 524(g) of such title, of quarterly reports that 
     contain detailed information regarding the receipt and 
     disposition of claims for injuries based on exposure to 
     asbestos; and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Lewis of 
             Georgia, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. 
             Soto, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Valadao, Ms. Shea-Porter, 
             Mr. Coffman, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Woodall, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
             Franks of Arizona, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Issa, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Poliquin, and Mr. Bishop 
             of Michigan):
       H.R. 907. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the care provided by the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to newborn children; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for himself, Mr. Kind, 
             Mr. Guthrie, and Mr. Michael F. Doyle of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 908. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to eliminate a provision under the Medicare 
     Advantage program that inadvertently penalizes Medicare 
     Advantage plans for providing high quality care to Medicare 
     beneficiaries; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts (for herself, Ms. Ros-
             Lehtinen, Mr. Denham, Mrs. Mimi Walters of 
             California, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Nadler, Mr. 
             Larsen of Washington, Mr. Cardenas, Ms. Roybal-
             Allard, Mr. Keating, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Foster, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mrs. 
             Lawrence, Ms. Speier, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Mr. Cartwright, Ms. Sinema, Ms. DelBene, 
             Mr. Lynch, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Engel, Mr. Connolly, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Delaney, Mr. Gene Green of 
             Texas, Mr. Yoder, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Crowley, Ms. 
             DeLauro, Ms. Tsongas, Ms. Titus, Mr. Schiff, Ms. 
             Norton, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. 
             Peters, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Meehan, Mr. Veasey, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Cummings, 
             Mr. Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. Pingree, 
             Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, 
             Mr. Langevin, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. 
             Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Buchanan, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. 
             Kilmer, Mr. Norcross, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. 
             Deutch, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Barletta, 
             Mrs. Comstock, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Rodney Davis of 
             Illinois, Ms. Sanchez, Miss Rice of New York, Ms. 
             Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Michelle Lujan 
             Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Diaz-Balart, Mr. Dent, Ms. 
             Shea-Porter, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Faso, Mr. 
             Walz, Mr. Polis, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Kildee, Mr. 
             Schrader, Mrs. Davis of California, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Brendan F. 
             Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. 
             Jones, Mr. Coffman, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Costa, Mr. 
             Capuano, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Garamendi, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. 
             Kennedy, Mr. Payne, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. 
             DeFazio, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Sires, Mr. Ted 
             Lieu of California, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. 
             Quigley, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Calvert, Mr. Poliquin, Ms. 
             Esty, Mr. Welch, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Takano, Mr. Brady 
             of Pennsylvania, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. 
             Scott of Virginia, Mr. Soto, Mrs. Bustos, Mrs. 
             Dingell, Ms. Stefanik, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Pallone, Mr. 
             Clay, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. Perry, Mr. 
             Stivers, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Aguilar, Ms. Velazquez, 
             Ms. Moore, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Higgins of New York, Mr.

[[Page H1080]]

             Serrano, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Heck, Mr. Rush, Mr. 
             Gallego, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. 
             Perlmutter, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. 
             Marino, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. Sablan, Ms. Frankel of 
             Florida, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Price of 
             North Carolina, Mr. Thompson of California, Mr. 
             Beyer, Mrs. Torres, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Chabot, Ms. 
             McSally, Mr. Sherman, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Donovan, Ms. 
             DeGette, Mr. Courtney, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Raskin, Mr. 
             Jeffries, Ms. Matsui, Mrs. Lowey, Mr. O'Halleran, Ms. 
             Meng, Mr. Bishop of Michigan, Ms. Bass, Mr. Katko, 
             Mr. Neal, Mr. Paulsen, and Mr. Huffman):
       H.R. 909. A bill to protect victims of domestic violence, 
     sexual assault, stalking, and dating violence from emotional 
     and psychological trauma caused by acts of violence or 
     threats of violence against their pets; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. HILL (for himself and Mr. Foster):
       H.R. 910. A bill to direct the Securities and Exchange 
     Commission to provide a safe harbor related to certain 
     investment fund research reports, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself, Mr. Gottheimer, Mr. 
             Carson of Indiana, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Jones, 
             Mr. Lance, Mr. MacArthur, Mr. Blum, Mr. Thomas J. 
             Rooney of Florida, Mr. Nadler, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. 
             Huffman, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Capuano, 
             Mr. Keating, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Mr. Perlmutter, Ms. Tsongas, and Mr. 
             Marino):
       H.R. 911. A bill to direct the Administrator of the Federal 
     Aviation Administration to issue an order with respect to 
     secondary cockpit barriers, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Ms. Titus, Mr. Deutch, Mr. 
             Aguilar, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Vargas, Mr. 
             Soto, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Norton, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Meng, Mr. 
             Gutierrez, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Cardenas, Ms. Schakowsky, and Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz):
       H.R. 912. A bill to provide for punishments for 
     immigration-related fraud, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FOSTER (for himself and Mr. Deutch):
       H.R. 913. A bill to provide for improvements in the 
     treatment of detainees, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. COURTNEY (for himself, Mr. Scott of Virginia, 
             Mr. Takano, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. 
             Pocan, Ms. Shea-Porter, and Ms. Titus):
       H.R. 914. A bill to amend the Occupational Safety and 
     Health Act of 1970 to expand coverage under the Act, to 
     increase protections for whistleblowers, to increase 
     penalties for high gravity violations, to adjust penalties 
     for inflation, to provide rights for victims or their family 
     members, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself, Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. 
             Lynch, Ms. Moore, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             Butterfield, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Cicilline, 
             Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Norton, Mr. McGovern, 
             Mr. Takano, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Pocan, 
             and Mr. Lewis of Georgia):
       H.R. 915. A bill to permanently extend the Protecting 
     Tenants at Foreclosure Act of 2009; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. SANFORD (for himself and Mr. Sherman):
       H.R. 916. A bill to amend the Congressional Budget and 
     Impoundment Control Act of 1974 to prohibit the use of 
     guarantee fees as offsets; to the Committee on Rules, and in 
     addition to the Committee on the Budget, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. COOK (for himself and Mr. Gene Green of Texas):
       H.R. 917. A bill to control the export of electronic waste 
     in order to ensure that such waste does not become the source 
     of counterfeit goods that may reenter military and civilian 
     electronics supply chains in the United States, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. COFFMAN (for himself, Mr. Kilmer, Miss Rice of 
             New York, Mr. Meehan, Mr. Jones, Mr. Bishop of 
             Georgia, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, Ms. Jenkins of 
             Kansas, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mr. Himes, Mr. Bergman, Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire, and Mrs. Radewagen):
       H.R. 918. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish mental 
     health care to certain former members of the Armed Forces who 
     are not otherwise eligible to receive such care, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for himself and Mr. 
             Joyce of Ohio):
       H.R. 919. A bill to require compliant flame mitigation 
     devices to be used on portable fuel containers for flammable 
     liquid fuels, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. LOFGREN:
       H.R. 920. A bill to provide that Executive Order 13767 (82 
     Fed. Reg. 8793; entitled ``Border Security and Immigration 
     Enforcement Improvements``), shall have no force or effect, 
     to prohibit the use of Federal funds to enforce the Executive 
     Order, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees on Homeland 
     Security, and Foreign Affairs, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. LOFGREN:
       H.R. 921. A bill to provide that Executive Order 13768 (82 
     Fed. Reg. 8799; entitled ``Enhancing Public Safety in the 
     Interior of the United States``), shall have no force or 
     effect, to prohibit the use of Federal funds to enforce the 
     Executive Order, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees on Foreign 
     Affairs, and Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. EVANS (for himself and Mr. McEachin):
       H.R. 922. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow rehabilitation expenditures for public school 
     buildings to qualify for rehabilitation credit; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. AMASH (for himself, Mr. Massie, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. 
             Conyers, Mr. Polis, and Mr. Emmer):
       H.R. 923. A bill to repeal the Cybersecurity Act of 2015; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Homeland Security, Intelligence 
     (Permanent Select), Armed Services, the Judiciary, Foreign 
     Affairs, Science, Space, and Technology, and Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROTHFUS:
       H.R. 924. A bill to amend the Federal Financial 
     Institutions Examination Council Act of 1978 to establish a 
     three-judge independent examination review panel; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. CALVERT (for himself, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Byrne, 
             Mr. Cook, Mr. Collins of New York, Mr. Cramer, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Mr. Issa, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, Mr. 
             Jones, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Ms. Pingree, Mr. 
             McClintock, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Walz, 
             and Mr. Wittman):
       H.R. 925. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     clarify the eligibility for monthly stipends paid under the 
     Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Program for certain members 
     of the reserve components of the Armed Forces; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. SOTO:
       H.R. 926. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to reduce the principal amount on loans made to STEM majors; 
     to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mrs. WALORSKI (for herself and Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire):
       H.R. 927. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for the eligibility for beneficiary travel for 
     veterans seeking treatment or care for military sexual trauma 
     in specialized outpatient or residential programs at 
     facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. GOHMERT (for himself, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. 
             Yoho, Mr. Cole, Mr. Pearce, and Mr. Cramer):
       H.R. 928. A bill to clarify that a State has the sole 
     authority to regulate hydraulic fracturing on Federal land 
     within the boundaries of the State; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Agriculture, Transportation and Infrastructure, and Energy 
     and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. SEWELL of Alabama (for herself, Mr. Cicilline, 
             and Ms. Shea-Porter):
       H.R. 929. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to establish tax-preferred Small Business Start-up Savings 
     Accounts; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. REICHERT (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
             Lance, and Ms. Schakowsky):
       H.R. 930. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage of certain 
     lymphedema compression treatment items as items of durable 
     medical equipment; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
     and in addition to the

[[Page H1081]]

     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. COLLINS of New York (for himself, Mr. Pascrell, 
             Mr. Amodei, Mr. Barletta, Mr. Barr, Mr. Blumenauer, 
             Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Bost, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, Ms. 
             Brownley of California, Mrs. Bustos, Mrs. Comstock, 
             Mr. Connolly, Mr. DeFazio, Ms. DeGette, Mr. Donovan, 
             Mr. Ellison, Mr. Engel, Ms. Esty, Mr. Foster, Mr. 
             Faso, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Heck, Mr. 
             Joyce of Ohio, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Katko, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. 
             Kind, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Knight, Ms. Kuster of 
             New Hampshire, Mr. Levin, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. LoBiondo, 
             Mr. Loebsack, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, 
             Ms. McCollum, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Meehan, Mr. Moulton, 
             Mr. Nadler, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Norcross, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Payne, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Peterson, Ms. Pingree, Mr. 
             Poliquin, Mr. Renacci, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. 
             Rogers of Kentucky, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Serrano, 
             Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Shuster, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Sires, 
             Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Mr. Swalwell 
             of California, Ms. Tenney, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Tsongas, 
             Mr. Valadao, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Walz, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Young 
             of Alaska, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Lance, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. 
             Quigley, Mr. Gottheimer, and Ms. Stefanik):
       H.R. 931. A bill to require the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to develop a voluntary registry to collect 
     data on cancer incidence among firefighters; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Pocan, 
             Ms. Maxine Waters of California, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Lee, and Mr. Quigley):
       H.R. 932. A bill to direct the Secretary of Transportation 
     to develop performance measures for assessing transportation 
     connectivity and accessibility for highway and public 
     transportation systems, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself and Mr. Lewis of Georgia):
       H.R. 933. A bill to strengthen the current protections 
     available under the National Labor Relations Act by providing 
     a private right of action for certain violations of such Act, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself and Mr. Rohrabacher):
       H.R. 934. A bill to reduce prescription drug costs by 
     allowing the importation and reimportation of certain drugs; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 935. A bill to codify an office within the Department 
     of Homeland Security with the mission of strengthening the 
     capacity of the agency to attract and retain highly trained 
     computer and information security professionals, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committees on Science, 
     Space, and Technology, and Homeland Security, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself, Ms. Norton, and Mr. 
             Vela):
       H.R. 936. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     establish a space-available transportation priority for 
     veterans of the Armed Forces who have a service-connected, 
     permanent disability rated as total; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mr. BRAT (for himself, Mr. Franks of Arizona, and 
             Mr. Griffith):
       H.R. 937. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to create Universal Savings Accounts; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BURGESS (for himself and Mr. Flores):
       H.R. 938. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide clarification with respect to the liability of 
     third party payers for medical assistance paid under the 
     Medicaid program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. BUSTOS (for herself, Mr. Jones, Mr. Lipinski, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Nolan, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. 
             Moore, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Norton, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. 
             Pocan, Ms. McCollum, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. 
             Foster, Mr. Cicilline, and Ms. Meng):
       H.R. 939. A bill to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to 
     extend and expand the provision requiring the use of iron and 
     steel products that are produced in the United States in 
     projects funded through a State drinking water treatment 
     revolving loan fund; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 940. A bill to secure communications of utilities from 
     terrorist threats, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. CONAWAY:
       H.R. 941. A bill to increase the number of operational 
     aircraft carriers of the Navy, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself and Mr. McKinley):
       H.R. 942. A bill to extend the right of appeal to the Merit 
     Systems Protection Board to certain employees of the United 
     States Postal Service; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. CURBELO of Florida (for himself and Mr. 
             Hastings):
       H.R. 943. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Commerce to 
     award competitive grants to combat the certain species of 
     lionfish in the Atlantic Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. DAVIS of California:
       H.R. 944. A bill to amend the Federal Election Campaign Act 
     of 1971 to prohibit certain State election administration 
     officials from actively participating in electoral campaigns; 
     to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 945. A bill to codify the objective of Presidential 
     Policy Directive 21 to improve critical infrastructure 
     security and resilience, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mrs. DAVIS of California:
       H.R. 946. A bill to amend the Help America Vote Act of 2002 
     to allow all eligible voters to vote by mail in Federal 
     elections; to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Ms. DeLAURO (for herself, Ms. Hanabusa, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Gene Green of 
             Texas, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Rush, Ms. Jayapal, Mrs. Lowey, 
             Mr. Evans, Mr. Kihuen, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Soto, Ms. 
             Moore, Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Jackson 
             Lee, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. Danny 
             K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Foster, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Nolan, Ms. Meng, Ms. 
             Pingree, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Walz, 
             Mr. Polis, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Lee, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. 
             Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Veasey, Mr. 
             Crowley, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Keating, Mr. Meeks, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Butterfield, 
             Mr. Lynch, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. Slaughter, 
             Mr. Bera, Ms. Gabbard, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Nadler, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Doggett, Mr. Moulton, Miss 
             Rice of New York, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, 
             Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Norton, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham 
             of New Mexico, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. 
             David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Aguilar, Mr. 
             Kildee, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Ms. 
             Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. Speier, 
             Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Engel, 
             Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
             Mr. Capuano, Mr. Pascrell, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Brendan 
             F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Langevin, 
             Mr. Delaney, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Norcross, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. 
             Tonko, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Takano, 
             Mr. Courtney, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mrs. 
             Lawrence, Mrs. Torres, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Payne, Ms. 
             Castor of Florida, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. 
             Larson of Connecticut, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New 
             York, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Thompson of California, 
             Ms. Fudge, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Ms. Adams, Mr. 
             Huffman, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. Higgins of New 
             York, and Ms. Blunt Rochester):
       H.R. 947. A bill to provide paid family and medical leave 
     benefits to certain individuals, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. ELLISON:
       H.R. 948. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to replace the mortgage interest deduction with a 
     nonrefundable credit for indebtedness secured by a residence, 
     to provide affordable housing to extremely low-income 
     families, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, and in addition to the Committee on Financial 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself and Mr. Brendan F. 
             Boyle of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 949. A bill to increase Federal Pell Grants for the 
     children of fallen public safety officers, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, 
     and in addition to the Committees on the Budget, and the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 950. A bill to require a report and assessment 
     regarding Department of Homeland

[[Page H1082]]

     Security responses to terrorist threats to Federal elections, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security.
           By Ms. FOXX:
       H.R. 951. A bill to extend the deadline for commencement of 
     construction of a hydroelectric project; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. FUDGE (for herself, Mr. Newhouse, Ms. Pingree, 
             and Mr. McGovern):
       H.R. 952. A bill to amend the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
     to clarify and expand food donation under the Bill Emerson 
     Good Samaritan Food Donation Act, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. GIBBS (for himself, Mr. Conaway, Mr. Peterson, 
             Mr. Bost, Mr. Marshall, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Abraham, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. Grothman, Mr. 
             LaMalfa, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Jones, Mr. Rogers of Alabama, 
             Mr. Babin, Mr. Cole, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Kustoff of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Crawford, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Gosar, 
             Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Allen, Mr. Schrader, and Mr. 
             Wenstrup):
       H.R. 953. A bill to amend the Federal Insecticide, 
     Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act and the Federal Water 
     Pollution Control Act to clarify Congressional intent 
     regarding the regulation of the use of pesticides in or near 
     navigable waters, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. GOODLATTE:
       H.R. 954. A bill to remove the use restrictions on certain 
     land transferred to Rockingham County, Virginia, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 955. A bill to require the Director of National 
     Intelligence to conduct a study on the feasibility of 
     establishing a Cyber Defense National Guard; to the Committee 
     on Intelligence (Permanent Select).
           By Mr. JEFFRIES (for himself and Mr. Collins of 
             Georgia):
       H.R. 956. A bill to regulate monitoring of electronic 
     communications between a prisoner in a Bureau of Prisons 
     facility and that prisoner's attorney or other legal 
     representative, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. JEFFRIES (for himself, Mr. Poe of Texas, and Mr. 
             Farenthold):
       H.R. 957. A bill to require that State and local law 
     enforcement agencies conform to Federal guidelines in using 
     cell simulator devices, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas:
       H.R. 958. A bill to eliminate certain programs of the 
     Environmental Protection Agency, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Transportation and Infrastructure, Agriculture, 
     and Science, Space, and Technology, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. JOYCE of Ohio (for himself, Ms. Matsui, Mr. 
             Rodney Davis of Illinois, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Meehan, 
             Ms. Castor of Florida, and Ms. Gabbard):
       H.R. 959. A bill to amend title VIII of the Public Health 
     Service Act to extend advanced education nursing grants to 
     support clinical nurse specialist programs, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for himself, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. 
             Hurd, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, Mr. Perry, Mr. Renacci, 
             and Mr. Kind):
       H.R. 960. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide for the tax-exempt financing of certain 
     government-owned buildings; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. KILDEE:
       H.R. 961. A bill to prohibit aquaculture in the Great 
     Lakes; to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KILDEE:
       H.R. 962. A bill to prohibit operation of aquaculture 
     facilities that contribute to pollution of wild and scenic 
     rivers; to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KING of New York (for himself, Mrs. Carolyn B. 
             Maloney of New York, Mr. DeFazio, Ms. Moore, Mr. 
             Jones, Ms. Esty, and Mr. McGovern):
       H.R. 963. A bill to provide for free mailing privileges for 
     personal correspondence and parcels sent to members of the 
     Armed Forces serving on active duty in Iraq, Afghanistan, or 
     other designated hostile fire areas; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mr. KING of New York (for himself and Mr. Pascrell):
       H.R. 964. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     include certain Federal positions within the definition of 
     law enforcement officer for retirement purposes, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire (for herself and Ms. 
             Shea-Porter):
       H.R. 965. A bill to redesignate the Saint-Gaudens National 
     Historic Site as the ``Saint-Gaudens National Historical 
     Park'', and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. LARSEN of Washington (for himself, Ms. DelBene, 
             Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, and Ms. Brownley of 
             California):
       H.R. 966. A bill making supplemental appropriations for 
     fiscal year 2017 for the TIGER discretionary grant program, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Appropriations, 
     and in addition to the Committee on the Budget, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MacARTHUR (for himself, Miss Rice of New York, 
             Mr. Lance, Mr. Pallone, and Mr. Pascrell):
       H.R. 967. A bill to posthumously award a Congressional gold 
     medal to Alice Paul, in recognition of her role in the 
     women's suffrage movement and in advancing equal rights for 
     women; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York (for himself, 
             Mr. Cummings, and Mr. Jeffries):
       H.R. 968. A bill to enforce the Sixth Amendment right to 
     the assistance of effective counsel at all stages of the 
     adversarial process, to confer jurisdiction upon the district 
     courts of the United States to provide declaratory and 
     injunctive relief against systemic violations of such right, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York (for himself, 
             Mr. Cummings, and Mr. Jeffries):
       H.R. 969. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     establish a corporation to advocate on behalf of individuals 
     in noncapital criminal cases before the Supreme Court of the 
     United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MEEKS:
       H.R. 970. A bill to amend title 41, United States Code, to 
     require the submission of data relating to diversity by 
     certain contractors, to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 to require the submission of such data by issuers, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Financial Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. MENG:
       H.R. 971. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     treat small businesses, owned by surviving spouses of members 
     of the Armed Forces killed in the line of duty, as small 
     business concerns owned and controlled by veterans for 
     purposes of contracting goals and preferences of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. MENG (for herself, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Norton, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Ms. Moore, Mr. Conyers, Ms. Lee, 
             Ms. Bonamici, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, 
             Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. Lofgren, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mr. Payne, Mr. Hastings, and Ms. Clarke of New 
             York):
       H.R. 972. A bill to increase the availability and 
     affordability of menstrual hygiene products for women and 
     girls with limited access, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Financial Services, the Judiciary, and 
     Education and the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. O'ROURKE (for himself, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Hurd, 
             and Ms. Bordallo):
       H.R. 973. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     modify the criteria for selecting communities to participate 
     in the Small Community Air Service Development Program, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Miss RICE of New York:
       H.R. 974. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in awarding a 
     contract for the procurement of goods or services, to give a 
     preference to offerors that employ veterans; to the Committee 
     on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. ROHRABACHER (for himself, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Young 
             of Alaska, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
             McClintock, Ms. Titus, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Polis, Mr. 
             Amash, Ms. Lee, and Mr. Massie):

[[Page H1083]]

  

       H.R. 975. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     provide for a new rule regarding the application of the Act 
     to marihuana, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROSS (for himself, Mr. Lipinski, and Ms. Castor 
             of Florida):
       H.R. 976. A bill to grant a Federal charter to the National 
     Academy of Inventors; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. SANCHEZ (for herself, Mr. Garamendi, and Mr. 
             Langevin):
       H.R. 977. A bill to amend the Elementary and Secondary 
     Education Act of 1965 to create a demonstration project to 
     fund additional secondary school counselors in troubled title 
     I schools to reduce the dropout rate; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. SINEMA (for herself, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. 
             Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. Kind, Mr. Gottheimer, 
             Mr. Peters, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, and Mr. 
             Yoho):
       H.R. 978. A bill to establish an independent advisory 
     committee to review certain regulations, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and in addition to the Committee on Rules, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SIRES (for himself and Mr. Yoho):
       H.R. 979. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to encourage Canadian tourism to the United States; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. TAKANO (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Brady 
             of Pennsylvania, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. 
             Cardenas, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Cooper, Mrs. Dingell, Ms. 
             Eshoo, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. 
             Kildee, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Pocan, Miss 
             Rice of New York, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Schiff, Mr. 
             Walz, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Correa, and Mr. Khanna):
       H.R. 980. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     modify authorities relating to the collective bargaining of 
     employees in the Veterans Health Administration; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. TORRES (for herself, Mr. Cole, Mr. O'Halleran, 
             and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 981. A bill to prohibit any hiring freeze from 
     affecting the Indian Health Service; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. TURNER (for himself, Ms. Tsongas, Ms. Fudge, Ms. 
             Kaptur, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Espaillat, 
             Mr. Conyers, and Mr. Ryan of Ohio):
       H.R. 982. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to allow for payments to States for substance abuse 
     services furnished to inmates in public institutions, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. WALDEN:
       H.R. 983. A bill to bar prosecution under section 844(f)(1) 
     of title 18, United States Code, in certain cases; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. WITTMAN (for himself, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Mr. Connolly, and Mr. Taylor):
       H.R. 984. A bill to extend Federal recognition to the 
     Chickahominy Indian Tribe, the Chickahominy Indian Tribe-
     Eastern Division, the Upper Mattaponi Tribe, the Rappahannock 
     Tribe, Inc., the Monacan Indian Nation, and the Nansemond 
     Indian Tribe; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas (for himself, Mr. Brendan F. 
             Boyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. Brownley of California, 
             Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Al Green 
             of Texas, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. McGovern, 
             Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Vela, 
             Mr. Courtney, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Ellison, 
             Mr. Huffman, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Sherman, Mr. 
             Vargas, Mr. Espaillat, and Mr. DeFazio):
       H.J. Res. 65. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States to abolish the 
     electoral college and to provide for the direct popular 
     election of the President and Vice President of the United 
     States; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself, Mr. Francis Rooney of 
             Florida, and Ms. Foxx):
       H.J. Res. 66. A joint resolution disapproving the rule 
     submitted by the Department of Labor relating to savings 
     arrangements established by States for non-governmental 
     employees; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. FRANCIS ROONEY of Florida (for himself, Mr. 
             Walberg, and Ms. Foxx):
       H.J. Res. 67. A joint resolution disapproving the rule 
     submitted by the Department of Labor relating to savings 
     arrangements established by qualified State political 
     subdivisions for non-governmental employees; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. CRAMER (for himself and Mr. Gosar):
       H.J. Res. 68. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5 of the 
     United States Code of a rule submitted by the Bureau of Land 
     Management relating to standards for measurement and 
     reporting of gas removed or sold from Federal and Indian 
     lands and areas subject to communitization agreements; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.J. Res. 69. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the final rule of the Department of the 
     Interior relating to ``Non-Subsistence Take of Wildlife, and 
     Public Participation and Closure Procedures, on National 
     Wildlife Refuges in Alaska``; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mrs. BEATTY (for herself, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. Evans, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. 
             Bishop of Georgia, Mr. Soto, Mr. Takano, Mr. Conyers, 
             Mr. Vargas, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. 
             Veasey, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Hastings, 
             and Ms. Clarke of New York):
       H. Con. Res. 22. Concurrent resolution recognizing the 
     difficult challenges Black veterans faced when returning home 
     after serving in the Armed Forces, their heroic military 
     sacrifices, and their patriotism in fighting for equal rights 
     and for the dignity of a people and a Nation; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CROWLEY:
       H. Res. 95. A resolution electing Members to certain 
     standing committees of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to.
           By Mrs. BLACK:
       H. Res. 96. A resolution providing amounts for the expenses 
     of the Committee on the Budget in the One Hundred Fifteenth 
     Congress; to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself and Mr. Engel):
       H. Res. 97. A resolution providing amounts for the expenses 
     of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the One Hundred 
     Fifteenth Congress; to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. CROWLEY:
       H. Res. 98. A resolution ranking a certain Member of a 
     certain standing committee of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. BUDD (for himself, Ms. Adams, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
             Walker, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Hudson, Mr. 
             Holding, Mr. McHenry, Ms. Foxx, Mr. Rouzer, and Mr. 
             Price of North Carolina):
       H. Res. 100. A resolution recognizing the significance of 
     the Greensboro Four Sit In; to the Committee on Education and 
     the Workforce, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BRADY of Texas (for himself and Mr. Neal):
       H. Res. 101. A resolution providing amounts for the 
     expenses of the Committee on Ways and Means in the One 
     Hundred Fifteenth Congress; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Mr. CASTRO of Texas (for himself, Mr. Doggett, Mr. 
             Nadler, and Mr. Soto):
       H. Res. 102. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives regarding the appointment of an 
     independent counsel to investigate actions by United States 
     Customs and Border Protection in apparent violation of 
     judicial orders; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CONAWAY:
       H. Res. 103. A resolution providing amounts for the 
     expenses of the Committee on Agriculture in the One Hundred 
     Fifteenth Congress; to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr. Sires, Mr. Castro of 
             Texas, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Keating, Ms. Titus, 
             Ms. Lee, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Vela, Mr. Polis, Mr. 
             Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Meeks, Mr. 
             Deutch, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Cicilline, Mrs. Torres, 
             Mr. Schiff, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. 
             Cuellar, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Vargas, Ms. 
             Maxine Waters of California, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Ted 
             Lieu of California, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Connolly, Mr. 
             Ellison, Ms. McCollum, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Serrano, 
             Mr. Cohen, and Ms. Lofgren):
       H. Res. 104. A resolution reaffirming a strong commitment 
     to the United States-Mexico partnership; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. NADLER (for himself, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Tonko, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Cicilline, 
             Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, 
             Mr. Raskin, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Judy Chu

[[Page H1084]]

             of California, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Swalwell 
             of California, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Ms. 
             Bass, Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Al 
             Green of Texas, Mr. Kildee, Mrs. Lawrence, Ms. Lee, 
             Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Schneider, Ms. Slaughter, 
             Ms. Maxine Waters of California, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. 
             Richmond, Mr. Vela, Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. McCollum, Mr. 
             Yarmuth, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Soto, Mr. 
             Gene Green of Texas, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Courtney, 
             Mrs. Lowey, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. 
             Sarbanes, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mrs. Davis of 
             California, Mr. Takano, Mr. Sherman, Mr. Serrano, Ms. 
             Sewell of Alabama, and Ms. Norton):
       H. Res. 105. A resolution expressing the Sense of the House 
     of Representatives that an Independent Judiciary is 
     Fundamental to American Democracy; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. NUNES (for himself and Mr. Schiff):
       H. Res. 106. A resolution providing amounts for the 
     expenses of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence in 
     the One Hundred Fifteenth Congress; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee (for himself and Mr. Walz):
       H. Res. 107. A resolution providing amounts for the 
     expenses of the Committee on Veterans' Affairs in the One 
     Hundred Fifteenth Congress; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Ms. SANCHEZ (for herself, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Price of 
             North Carolina, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Tonko, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Lee, Mr. Levin, Ms. Moore, Mr. 
             Kilmer, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Polis, Mr. Vargas, Ms. 
             Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Pocan, and Mr. Ted Lieu 
             of California):
       H. Res. 108. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of the week of February 6, 2017, through February 
     10, 2017, as ``National School Counseling Week''; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mrs. WALORSKI:
       H. Res. 109. A resolution deploring the actions of the 
     Palestinian Authority to join the International Criminal 
     Court and undertake legal action through the Court against 
     Israel; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H. Res. 110. A resolution recognizing February 26, 2017, as 
     the 100th anniversary of the establishment of Denali National 
     Park and Preserve in the State of Alaska; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources

                          ____________________



