

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 34 (Monday, February 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 34 (Monday, February 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1448-S1449]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 66

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 66, a bill to 
amend title 10, United States Code, to permit certain retired members 
of the uniformed services who have a service-connected disability to 
receive both disability compensation from the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for their disability and either retired pay by reason of their 
years of military service or Combat-Related Special Compensation, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 93

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) was added as a cosponsor of S. 93, a bill to 
allow women greater access to safe and effective contraception.


                                 S. 105

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mr. Sasse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 105, a bill to amend the 
Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 to transition the Bureau of 
Consumer Financial Protection to a 5-member board of directors.


                                 S. 116

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 116, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to permit veterans who have a service-
connected, permanent disability rated as total to travel on military 
aircraft in the same manner and to the same extent as retired members 
of the Armed Forces entitled to such travel.


                                 S. 134

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 134, a bill to expand 
the prohibition on misleading or inaccurate caller identification 
information, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 191

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 191, a bill to 
improve patient choice by allowing States to adopt market-based 
alternatives to the Affordable Care Act that increase access to 
affordable health insurance and reduce costs while ensuring important 
consumer protections and improving patient care.


                                 S. 206

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 206, a bill to amend 
the Higher Education Act of 1965 to allow the Secretary of Education to 
award job training Federal Pell Grants.


                                 S. 207

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) and the Senator from Florida (Mr. Rubio) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 207, a bill to amend the Controlled 
Substances Act relating to controlled substance analogues.


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) and the Senator from Washington (Ms. Cantwell) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 236, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic beverages.


                                 S. 248

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 248, a bill to block 
implementation of the Executive order that restricts individuals from 
certain countries from entering the United States.


                                 S. 251

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 251, a bill to repeal the 
Independent Payment Advisory Board in order to ensure that it cannot be 
used to undermine the Medicare entitlement for beneficiaries.


                                 S. 275

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 275, a bill to allow the 
financing by United States persons of sales of agricultural commodities 
to Cuba.


                                 S. 294

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr.

[[Page S1449]]

Isakson) was withdrawn as a cosponsor of S. 294, a bill to amend the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to clarify the Food and Drug 
Administration's jurisdiction over certain tobacco products, and to 
protect jobs and small businesses involved in the sale, manufacturing 
and distribution of traditional and premium cigars.
  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 294, supra.


                                 S. 301

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Barrasso) was added as a cosponsor of S. 301, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to prohibit governmental discrimination 
against providers of health services that are not involved in abortion.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. Schumer), the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) and the 
Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy) were added as cosponsors of S. 324, a 
bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the provision of 
adult day health care services for veterans.


                                 S. 341

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the names of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran), the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Reed), the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin), 
the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Bennet), the Senator from Massachusetts 
(Ms. Warren), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons), the Senator from 
Montana (Mr. Tester), the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Donnelly) and the 
Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) were added as cosponsors of 
S. 341, a bill to provide for congressional oversight of actions to 
waive, suspend, reduce, provide relief from, or otherwise limit the 
application of sanctions with respect to the Russian Federation, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 370

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the names of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mr. Sasse) and the Senator from Texas (Mr. Cornyn) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 370, a bill to eliminate the Bureau of Consumer 
Financial Protection by repealing title X of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street 
Reform and Consumer Protection Act, commonly known as the Consumer 
Financial Protection Act of 2010.


                                 S. 377

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 377, a bill to amend the 
Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 to clarify report dates, 
modify the criteria for determinations of whether countries are meeting 
the minimum standards for elimination of trafficking, and highlight the 
importance of concrete actions by countries to eliminate trafficking, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 379

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 379, a bill 
to amend title II of the Social Security Act to eliminate the five 
month waiting period for disability insurance benefits under such title 
for individuals with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 382, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop a voluntary registry 
to collect data on cancer incidence among firefighters.


                                 S. 387

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mr. Sasse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 387, a bill to amend the 
Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 to subject the Bureau of 
Consumer Financial Protection to the regular appropriations process, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 397

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
397, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure 
fairness in Medicare hospital payments by establishing a floor for the 
area wage index applied with respect to certain hospitals.


                                 S. 422

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the names of the Senator from 
Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) and the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 422, a bill to amend title 38, United States 
Code, to clarify presumptions relating to the exposure of certain 
veterans who served in the vicinity of the Republic of Vietnam, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 426

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 426, a bill to increase 
educational assistance provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs 
for education and training of physician assistants of the Department, 
to establish pay grades and require competitive pay for physician 
assistants of the Department, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 438

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 438, a bill to encourage 
effective, voluntary investments to recruit, employ, and retain men and 
women who have served in the United States military with annual Federal 
awards to employers recognizing such efforts, and for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 16

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 16, a joint 
resolution approving the discontinuation of the process for 
consideration and automatic implementation of the annual proposal of 
the Independent Medicare Advisory Board under section 1899A of the 
Social Security Act.


                              S.J. RES. 18

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. Flake) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 18, a joint 
resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of 
title 5, United States Code, of the final rule submitted by the 
Department of the Interior relating to Non-Subsistence Take of 
Wildlife, and Public Participation and Closure Procedures, on National 
Wildlife Refuges in Alaska.


                              S.J. RES. 19

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. McCain) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 19, a joint 
resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of 
title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Bureau of 
Consumer Financial Protection relating to prepaid accounts under the 
Electronic Fund Transfer Act and the Truth in Lending Act.


                              S.J. RES. 23

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 23, a joint resolution 
disapproving the rule submitted by the Department of Labor relating to 
drug testing of unemployment compensation applicants.


                               S. RES. 60

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the names of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Risch) and the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) were added 
as cosponsors of S. Res. 60, a resolution designating May 5, 2017, as 
the ``National Day of Awareness for Missing and Murdered Native Women 
and Girls'' .

                          ____________________



