

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2362-S2363]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. PAUL (for himself and Mr. Booker):
       S. 827. A bill to provide for the sealing or expungement of 
     records relating to Federal nonviolent criminal offenses, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ROUNDS (for himself, Mr. Warner, Mr. Tester, Mr. 
             Scott, Mr. Donnelly, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Cotton, Mr. 
             Tillis, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Kennedy, and Mr. 
             Schumer):
       S. 828. A bill to amend the Federal Deposit Insurance Act 
     to require the appropriate Federal banking agencies to treat 
     certain municipal obligations as level 2B liquid assets, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. McCAIN (for himself, Mr. Tester, Ms. Collins, 
             and Mr. Carper):
       S. 829. A bill to reauthorize the Assistance to 
     Firefighters Grants program, the Fire Prevention and Safety 
     Grants program, and the Staffing for Adequate Fire and 
     Emergency Response grant program, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Mr. Carper, Mr. Grassley, 
             Mr. Coons, Ms. Murkowski, Mr. Heinrich, and Mrs. 
             Capito):
       S. 830. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for the coordination of programs to prevent 
     and treat obesity, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Finance.
           By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself and Mr. Casey):
       S. 831. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 120 West Pike Street in 
     Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, as the ``Police Officer Scott 
     Bashioum Post Office Building''; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. Isakson, and Mr. 
             Coons):
       S. 832. A bill to enhance the transparency and accelerate 
     the impact of programs under the African Growth and 
     Opportunity Act and the Millennium Challenge Corporation, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Ms. Murkowski, Ms. Harris, 
             Ms. Klobuchar, Mrs. McCaskill, Mrs. Murray, Mr. King, 
             and Mr. Blumenthal):
       S. 833. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     expand health care and benefits from the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs for military sexual trauma, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr. Schumer, Mrs. 
             Gillibrand, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Reed, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Ms. Warren, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Casey, 
             Mrs. Murray, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Kaine, Mr. 
             Sanders, Mr. Schatz, Ms. Hirono, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. 
             Brown, Mr. Carper, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Cardin, Mr. 
             Coons, Mr. Booker, Ms. Harris, Mr. Menendez, and Mrs. 
             Feinstein):
       S. 834. A bill to authorize the appropriation of funds to 
     the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for conducting 
     or supporting research on firearms safety or gun violence 
     prevention; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Mr. Markey, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Durbin, and 
             Mr. Merkley):
       S. 835. A bill to require the Supreme Court of the United 
     States to promulgate a code of ethics; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Ms. Murkowski, Ms. Warren, 
             and Mr. Markey):
       S. 836. A bill to amend the Federal Credit Union Act to 
     exclude a loan secured by a non-owner occupied 1- to 4-family 
     dwelling from the definition of a member business loan, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. HATCH:
       S. 837. A bill to provide for the conveyance of certain 
     land to Washington County, Utah, to authorize the exchange of 
     Federal land and non-Federal in the State of Utah, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.

[[Page S2363]]

  

           By Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mr. Boozman, and Mr. 
             Rubio):
       S. 838. A bill to amend the Truth in Lending Act to include 
     retrofit loans such as property assessed clean energy loans, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
     and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. WICKER (for himself, Mrs. Capito, and Mr. 
             Inhofe):
       S. 839. A bill to allow for judicial review of any final 
     rule addressing national emission standards for hazardous air 
     pollutants for brick and structural clay products or for clay 
     ceramics manufacturing before requiring compliance with such 
     rule; to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr. Warner):
       S. 840. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to 
     allow the Secretary of Education to award Early College 
     Federal Pell Grants; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr. Brown):
       S. 841. A bill to designate the Veterans Memorial and 
     Museum in Columbus, Ohio, as the National Veterans Memorial 
     and Museum, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr. Johnson, Ms. Baldwin, 
             Mrs. Ernst, Mr. Brown, and Mr. Portman):
       S. 842. A bill to prohibit Federal agencies and Federal 
     contractors from requesting that an applicant for employment 
     disclose criminal history record information before the 
     applicant has received a conditional offer, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. BENNET (for himself and Mr. Portman):
       S. 843. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide for the issuance of exempt facility bonds for 
     qualified carbon dioxide capture facilities; to the Committee 
     on Finance.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. Boozman, and Mr. 
             Markey):
       S. 844. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     consider certain time spent by members of reserve components 
     of the Armed Forces while receiving medical care from the 
     Secretary of Defense as active duty for purposes of 
     eligibility for Post-9/11 Educational Assistance, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Ms. Hirono, Mr. 
             Franken, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Merkley, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. 
             Harris, Mr. Markey, Mr. Booker, Ms. Warren, and Mr. 
             Wyden):
       S. 845. A bill to protect sensitive community locations 
     from harmful immigration enforcement action, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr. Whitehouse, Ms. 
             Hassan, Mr. King, and Mr. Casey):
       S. 846. A bill to direct the Secretary of Transportation to 
     assist States to rehabilitate or replace certain bridges, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Environment and 
     Public Works.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Ms. Collins, Ms. 
             Duckworth, Mrs. Feinstein, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. 
             Harris, Ms. Hassan, Ms. Heitkamp, Ms. Hirono, Mrs. 
             McCaskill, Mrs. Murray, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. Warren, Ms. 
             Cantwell, Ms. Stabenow, and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 847. A bill to establish a commission to ensure a 
     suitable observance of the centennial of the passage and 
     ratification of the 19th Amendment to the Constitution of the 
     United States providing for women's suffrage, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. HASSAN:
       S. 848. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to 
     encourage entrepreneurship by providing loan deferment and 
     loan cancellation for founders and employees of small 
     business startups, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. KING (for himself, Mr. Burr, Mr. Nelson, and Mr. 
             Rubio):
       S. 849. A bill to support programs for mosquito-borne and 
     other vector-borne disease surveillance and control; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Mr. Cassidy):
       S. 850. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to 
     establish fair and consistent eligibility requirements for 
     graduate medical schools operating outside the United States 
     and Canada; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. WHITEHOUSE:
       S. 851. A bill to end offshore corporate tax avoidance, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr. Portman):
       S. 852. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to protect older, longer service and grandfathered 
     participants in defined benefit plans; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. Perdue, Mrs. Feinstein, 
             Mr. Rubio, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. Collins, Mr. Merkley, 
             Mr. Booker, and Mr. Leahy):
       S. 853. A bill to identify and combat corruption in 
     countries, to establish a tiered system of countries with 
     respect to levels of corruption by their governments and 
     their efforts to combat such corruption, and to assess United 
     States assistance to designated countries in order to advance 
     anti-corruption efforts in those countries and better serve 
     United States taxpayers; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. Manchin, and Mr. Brown):
       S. 854. A bill to improve compliance with mine safety and 
     health laws, empower miners to raise safety concerns, prevent 
     future mine tragedies, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Manchin, Mr. 
             Kaine, and Mr. Warner):
       S. 855. A bill to ensure that claims for benefits under the 
     Black Lung Benefits Act are processed in a fair and timely 
     manner, to better protect miners from pneumoconiosis 
     (commonly known as ``black lung disease''), and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mrs. McCASKILL (for herself, Mr. Heller, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Grassley, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Rubio, 
             Mr. Warner, Mrs. Ernst, Mr. Reed, Ms. Hassan, Mrs. 
             Capito, and Mrs. Shaheen):
       S. 856. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     and the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and 
     Campus Crime Statistics Act to combat campus sexual assault, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr. Alexander):
       S. 857. A bill to amend title 54, United States Code, to 
     establish within the National Park Service the African 
     American Civil Rights Network, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr. Franken, Ms. 
             Stabenow, and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 858. A bill to provide protection for survivors of 
     domestic violence or sexual assault under the Fair Housing 
     Act; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr. Portman, and Ms. 
             Stabenow):
       S. 859. A bill to authorize the Director of the United 
     States Geological Survey to conduct monitoring, assessment, 
     science, and research, in support of the binational fisheries 
     within the Great Lakes Basin, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. 
             Tillis, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Leahy, Mr. 
             Durbin, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Blunt, and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 860. A bill to reauthorize and improve the Juvenile 
     Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Leahy, 
             Mr. Blumenthal, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Schatz, Mr. 
             Carper, Mr. Warner, Mr. Markey, Mr. Sanders, Mr. 
             Udall, Ms. Hirono, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. 
             Kaine, Mrs. Murray, and Mr. Brown):
       S. 861. A bill to provide for the compensation of Federal 
     employees affected by lapses in appropriations; read the 
     first time.

                          ____________________



