

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 49 (Tuesday, March 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 49 (Tuesday, March 21, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1888]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      REMEMBERING JOHN BRUCE FERY

 Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, today I wish to honor the life of 
John Bruce Fery, a friend and mentor.
  John's obituary beautifully conveyed a sense of who he was: ``John's 
journey took him from challenging early years as a latchkey kid with a 
working mom to remarkable lifetime accomplishments. He loved God, his 
family, his community, and his country. He loved the outdoors, 
sunshine, and John Wayne. He had a zest for life and a work ethic that 
was incomparable, while his commanding presence, charming smile, and 
quick-witted humor made him adored by family and friends. He was 
captivated by the joys of family life, the challenges of business, the 
warmth of friendships, the satisfaction of philanthropic work, and the 
stories each brought to his life.''
  On February 16, 1930, John was born in Bellingham, WA, to Margaret 
and Carl Fery. John lost his father at a young age, and he and his 
mother moved to Seattle, where he graduated from Roosevelt High School 
and attended the University of Washington before serving in the U.S. 
Navy during the Korean war. He married his wife, Dee, in 1953, and 
obtained his masters of business administration from Stanford 
University before his extensive, much respected career in the pulp and 
paper industry. He led the Boise Cascade Company for more than two 
decades, taking on the position of president and chief executive 
officer in 1972 and chairman of the board in 1978. Throughout his 37-
year career with the company, he built a legacy of sound judgement and 
expertise that led to his many honors, awards, and service on multiple 
boards.
  In addition to his esteemed business career, John and Dee have given 
generously to many philanthropic efforts. His obituary aptly highlights 
some of their significant contributions to the community: ``Whether 
attending the new Horsethief Reservoir Y Camp in Cascade, Idaho, 
learning about Birds of Prey at the World Center, enjoying the Idaho 
Shakespeare Festival and the park that he and Dee donated, attending 
Medical School through the WWAMI program which John helped found as a 
means of training physicians for Idaho, staying at St. Alphonsus 
Regional Medical Center where John chaired the board and established 
its Foundation, receiving a grant from the Idaho Community Foundation, 
which exists today due to John's leadership in its formation and 
growth, or receiving a scholarship to Boise's Bishop Kelly High School, 
the University of Idaho, or Stanford, people will have experiences made 
possible by John and Dee's vison and generosity.''
  John was also a dear friend to me. He encouraged me and was 
instrumental in inspiring my public service. His guidance, advice, and 
insight are forever etched in my life's path, and I am deeply grateful 
for the time he took to help shape my service. I extend my deepest 
sympathies to Dee; their sons, Brent, Bruce, and Michael and their 
families; and their many other family members, loved ones, and friends. 
We are bettered for having had John in our lives. He leaves behind an 
enduring, loving, and joyful legacy.

                          ____________________



