

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S313-S314]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and jointresolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mr. Graham, Mr. Risch, Mrs. 
             Capito, Mr.Rounds, Mr. Thune, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Crapo, 
             Mr. Johnson, Mr. Barrasso, Mr. Daines, Mr.Roberts, 
             Mr. Lee, Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Wicker, Mr. 
             Cochran, Mr. Hoeven, Mr.McCain, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. 
             McConnell, and Mr. Blunt):
       S. 107. A bill toprohibit voluntary or assessed 
     contributions to the United Nations until the President 
     certifies to Congress that United NationsSecurity Council 
     Resolution 2334 has been repealed; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations.
           By Mr.HATCH (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Portman, 
             Mr. Donnelly, Mr. Young, Mr. Casey, Mr.Toomey, Mrs. 
             Shaheen, Mr. Isakson, and Mr. Franken):
       S. 108. A bill toamend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
     repeal the excise tax on medical devices; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr. Casey, Mr. Brown, Mr. 
             Udall, Ms.Hirono, Mr. Franken, Mr. Peters, Ms. 
             Klobuchar, Mr. Coons, Mr. Donnelly, Mrs. Shaheen,Mrs. 
             Capito, Mr. Wicker, Mr. Cochran, Mr. Gardner, Mr. 
             Boozman, Ms. Collins, Mr.Hoeven, Mr. Blunt, Mr. 
             Barrasso, Mr. Thune, Mr. Moran, Mr. Cotton, Mrs. 
             Ernst, Mr.Daines, Mr. Scott, and Mr. Young):
       S. 109. A bill to amend title XVIII of theSocial Security 
     Act to provide for coverage under the Medicare program of 
     pharmacist services; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Ms. Murkowski, Mr. 
             Sullivan, and Mr. Booker):
       S. 110. A bill to require the Secretary of Commerce, acting 
     through the Administrator of theNational Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration, to establish a constituent-driven 
     program to provide a digital informationplatform capable of 
     efficiently integrating coastal data with decision-support 
     tools, training, and best practices and tosupport collection 
     of priority coastal geospatial data to inform and improve 
     local, State, regional, and Federal capacities tomanage the 
     coastal region, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. HELLER (for himself and Ms. Hirono):
       S. 111. A bill to require theSecretary of Defense to 
     establish a process to determine whether individuals claiming 
     certain service in the Philippines duringWorld War II are 
     eligible for certain benefits despite not being on the 
     Missouri List, and for other purposes; to the Committeeon 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. HELLER (for himself and Mrs. Murray):
       S. 112. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize per diem payments under comprehensive 
     serviceprograms for homeless veterans to furnish care to 
     dependents of homeless veterans, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee onVeterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. HELLER (for himself and Mr. Tester):
       S. 113. A bill to require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     to carry out a pilot program to increase the use of 
     medicalscribes to maximize the efficiency of physicians at 
     medical facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs; to 
     the Committeeon Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. HELLER (for himself and Mr. Casey):
       S. 114. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     require the Secretary of Veterans Affairsto submit an annual 
     report regarding performance awards and bonuses awarded to 
     certain high-level employees of the Department ofVeterans 
     Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. HELLER:
       S. 115. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide for 
     anoperation on a live donor for purposes of conducting a 
     transplant procedure for a veteran, and for other purposes; 
     to theCommittee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. HELLER (for himself and Mr. Tester):
       S. 116. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     permit veterans who have a service-connected, permanent 
     disability rated as total to travel on military aircraft in 
     the same manner and to the same extent asretired members of 
     the Armed Forces entitled to such travel; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           ByMr. DAINES (for himself and Mr. Tester):
       S. 117. A bill to designate a mountain peakin the State of 
     Montana as ``Alex Diekmann Peak''; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. LEE (for himself, Mrs. Fischer, Mr. King, Mrs. 
             Capito, and Ms. Collins):
       S. 118. A bill to make exclusive the authority of the 
     Federal Government to regulate the labelingof products made 
     in the United States and introduced in interstate or foreign 
     commerce, and for other purposes; to the Committeeon 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr. Blunt, Mr.Inhofe, Mr. 
             Cornyn, Mr. Cruz, Mrs. Fischer, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Flake, 
             Mr. Hatch, and Mr.Tillis):
       S. 119. A bill to impose certain limitations on consent 
     decrees and settlementagreements by agencies that require the 
     agencies to take regulatory action in accordance with the 
     terms thereof, and for otherpurposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. HELLER:
       S.120. A bill to provide for the creation of the Missing 
     Armed Forces Personnel Records Collection at the National 
     Archives, torequire the expeditious public transmission to 
     the Archivist and public disclosure of Missing Armed Forces 
     Personnel records,and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr.HELLER:
       S. 121. A bill to establish the veterans' business outreach 
     center program, toimprove the programs for veterans of the 
     Small Business Administration, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on SmallBusiness and Entrepreneurship.
           By Mr. HELLER (for himself, Ms. Stabenow, Mr.Isakson, 
             and Mr. Menendez):

[[Page S314]]

  

       S. 122. A bill to prevent homeowners from beingforced to 
     pay taxes on forgiven mortgage loan debt; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Ms.KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mrs. Fischer, Mr. Schatz, 
             Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Thune, and Mr. Cruz):
       S. 123. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to 
     require multi-line telephone systems tohave a default 
     configuration that permits users to directly initiate a call 
     to 9-1-1 without dialing any additional digit,code, prefix, 
     or post-fix, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and Mr. Grassley):
       S. 124. A bill to prohibitbrand name drug companies from 
     compensating generic drug companies to delay the entry of a 
     generic drug into the market; to theCommittee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself, Ms. Cantwell, 
             Mr.Sullivan, and Mr. Heinrich):
       S. 125. A bill to amendthe Oil Pollution Act of 1990 to 
     impose penalties and provide for the recovery of removal 
     costs and damages in connection withcertain discharges of oil 
     from foreign offshore units, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr. Paul, and Mr. Tester):
       S. 126. A bill to amend the Real ID Act of 2005 to repeal 
     provisions requiring uniform State driver's licenses and 
     Stateidentification cards, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. FLAKE:
       S. 127. A bill to provide provisional protected presence 
     toqualified individuals who came to the United States as 
     children; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           ByMr. GRAHAM (for himself, Mr. Durbin, Ms. Murkowski, 
             Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Flake, Mr. Schumer,and Ms. 
             Harris):
       S. 128. A bill to provide provisional protected presence to 
     qualifiedindividuals who came to the United States as 
     children; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr.WICKER (for himself, Mr. Schatz, Ms. Cantwell, 
             and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 129.A bill to reauthorize and amend the National Sea 
     Grant College Program Act, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee onCommerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Ms. BALDWIN:
       S. 130. Abill to require enforcement against misbranded 
     milk alternatives; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 131. Abill to provide for the exchange of certain 
     National Forest System land and non-Federal land in the State 
     of Alaska, and forother purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CRAPO (for himself, Mr.Lee, Mr. Risch, and Mr. 
             Rubio):
       S. 132. A bill to amend title 54, United StatesCode, to 
     provide for congressional and State approval of national 
     monuments and restrictions on the use of national 
     monuments;to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BURR:
       S.133. A bill to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
     2017 for intelligence and intelligence-related activities of 
     the UnitedStates Government, the Community Management 
     Account, and the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and 
     Disability System, andfor other purposes; to the Select 
     Committee on Intelligence.
           By Mr. NELSON (for himself, Mrs.Fischer, Ms. Klobuchar, 
             and Mr. Blunt):
       S. 134. A bill to expand the prohibitionon misleading or 
     inaccurate caller identification information, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science,and 
     Transportation.
           By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself and Mr. Perdue):
       S. 135. A bill to redesignate Ocmulgee National Monument in 
     the State of Georgia and revise its boundary, and for 
     otherpurposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself and Mr.Perdue):
       S. 136. A bill to adjust the boundary of the Kennesaw 
     Mountain National BattlefieldPark to include the Wallis House 
     and Harriston Hill, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. ISAKSON:
       S. 137. A bill to expand the boundary of FortFrederica 
     National Monument in the State of Georgia, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr. Casey):
       S. 138. A bill to impose sanctions on persons that threaten 
     the peace or stability of Iraq or the Government ofIraq and 
     to address the emergency in Syria, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Cornyn, 
             Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr.Flake, and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 139. A bill to implement the use of Rapid DNAinstruments 
     to inform decisions about pretrial release or detention and 
     their conditions, to solve and prevent violent crimesand 
     other crimes, to exonerate the innocent, to prevent DNA 
     analysis backlogs, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on theJudiciary.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself and Mr. McCain):
       S.140. A bill to amend the White Mountain Apache Tribe 
     Water Rights Quantification Act of 2010 to clarify the use of 
     amounts inthe WMAT Settlement Fund; to the Committee on 
     Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr.Gardner, Mr. Booker, and 
             Mr. Wicker):
       S. 141. A bill to improve understandingand forecasting of 
     space weather events, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 142. A billto expand certain empowerment zone provisions 
     to communities receiving a Worker Adjustment and Retraining 
     Notification Actnotice, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr.Moran, Mr. Blunt, Mr. 
             Coons, and Mr. Kaine):
       S. 143. A bill to amend theInternal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
     allow a credit against income tax for amounts paid by a 
     spouse of a member of the Armed Forcesfor a new State license 
     or certification required by reason of a permanent change in 
     the duty station of such member to anotherState; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Mrs. Murray):
       S. 144. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide for the establishment ofPromise Zones; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. HELLER:
       S. 145.A bill to require the Secretary of the Interior and 
     the Secretary of Agriculture to more efficiently develop 
     domestic sources ofthe minerals and mineral materials of 
     strategic and critical importance to the economic and 
     national security and manufacturingcompetitiveness of the 
     United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. McCAIN:
       S. 146. A bill to strengthen accountability for deployment 
     ofborder security technology at the Department of Homeland 
     Security, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Securityand Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself and Mr. Cassidy):
       S.J. Res. 4. A joint resolution disapproving the action of 
     the District of Columbia Council in approving the Deathwith 
     Dignity Act of 2016; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
     and Governmental Affairs.

                          ____________________



