

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H93-H96]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS ANDRESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severallyreferred, as follows:

           By Mr. CONAWAY (for himself, Mr. Austin Scott of 
             Georgia, Mr.Sessions, and Mr. David Scott of 
             Georgia):
       H.R. 238. A bill to reauthorize theCommodity Futures 
     Trading Commission, to better protect futures customers, to 
     provide end-users with market certainty, to makebasic reforms 
     to ensure transparency and accountability at the Commission, 
     to help farmers, ranchers, and end-users managerisks, to help 
     keep consumer costs low, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to 
     theCommittee on Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     suchprovisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. RATCLIFFE (forhimself and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 239. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     toprovide for innovative research and development, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. RATCLIFFE (for himself, Mr. McCaul, and Mr. 
             Thompson of Mississippi):
       H.R. 240. A bill to encourage engagement between the 
     Department of Homeland Security and technology innovators, 
     and forother purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself, Mr.Burgess, Mr. Jody 
             B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Weber of Texas, 
             Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr.Franks

[[Page H94]]

             of Arizona, Mr. Farenthold, and Mrs. Black):
       H.R. 241. A bill toprovide for sanctions on countries that 
     have refused or unreasonably delayed repatriation of an alien 
     who is a national of thatcountry, or that have an excessive 
     repatriation failure rate, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and inaddition to the Committee 
     on Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case forconsideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr.WELCH (for himself, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. DeLauro, 
             Mr. Cummings, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Pocan, Mr.Cicilline, 
             Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Lipinski, Ms. McCollum, Ms. Castor of 
             Florida, Mr. Grijalva, Mr.Lynch, Mr. Cohen, Ms. 
             Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, and Mr. 
             Cartwright):
       H.R. 242. A bill to amend part D of title XVIII of the 
     Social Security Act to require the Secretary of Health and 
     HumanServices to negotiate covered part D drug prices on 
     behalf of Medicare beneficiaries; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce,and in addition to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case forconsideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr.AMODEI:
       H.R. 243. A bill to amend title 54, United States Code, to 
     prohibit the furtherextension or establishment of national 
     monuments in the State of Nevada except by express 
     authorization of Congress; to theCommittee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. COOK (for himself and Ms. Gabbard):
       H.R. 244. A bill to encourage effective, voluntary private 
     sector investments to recruit, employ, and retain menand 
     women who have served in the United States military with 
     annual presidential awards to private sector employers 
     recognizingsuch efforts, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. COOK (forhimself and Mr. Takano):
       H.R. 245. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     providefor the calculation of the amount of the monthly 
     housing stipend payable under the Post-9/11 Educational 
     Assistance Program ofthe Department of Veterans Affairs based 
     on the location of the campus where classes are attended; to 
     the Committee on Veterans'Affairs.
           By Mrs. NOEM (for herself, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Bilirakis, 
             Mrs. Black, Mrs.Blackburn, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. 
             Buchanan, Mr. Carter of Texas, Mr. Collins of New 
             York, Mr.Guthrie, Mr. Hensarling, Mr. Jody B. Hice of 
             Georgia, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, 
             Mr.Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. Knight, Mr. Lamborn, 
             Mr. Lance, Mr. MacArthur, Mr. Massie, Mr.Meehan, Mr. 
             Messer, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Peterson, Mr. 
             Ratcliffe, Mr.Rohrabacher, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. 
             Roskam, Mr. Smith of Missouri, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. 
             Barr,Mr. Katko, Mr. Turner, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, 
             Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Holding, Mr.Hill, Mr. 
             Hudson, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Sam Johnson of Texas, Mr. 
             Reed, Mr. Woodall, Mr.Smith of Nebraska, Mr. 
             Griffith, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Hurd, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. 
             Shuster, Mr.Long, Mr. Allen, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Jones, 
             Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Tipton, Mr.Burgess, Mr. 
             Walberg, Mr. Olson, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Tiberi, Mr. 
             Moolenaar, Mr. Brat, Mr.Webster of Florida, Mr. 
             Barletta, Mr. Nunes, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Carter of 
             Georgia, Mr.Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. Bishop of 
             Michigan, Mr. Renacci, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Emmer, 
             Mr.Schweikert, Mr. Marchant, Mr. Young of Alaska, Mr. 
             Young of Iowa, Mr. Westerman, Mr. Gibbs,Mr. 
             Pittenger, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Mr. LaHood, Mr. 
             Collins of Georgia, and Mr. Yoder):
       H.R. 246. A bill to repeal the annual fee on health 
     insurance providers enacted by the PatientProtection and 
     Affordable Care Act; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce,for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     thejurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BRAT (for himself, Mr. Gohmert, Mr.Meadows, Mr. 
             Royce of California, Mr. Rokita, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. 
             Guthrie, and Mr. Gosar):
       H.R. 247. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to expand the permissible use of healthsavings accounts to 
     include health insurance payments and to increase the dollar 
     limitation for contributions to health savingsaccounts, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. AMASH:
       H.R. 248. A bill to limit the authority of personnel of the 
     Department of Homeland Security toprohibit a citizen or 
     permanent resident of the United States from boarding as a 
     passenger on an aircraft or cruise ship basedon inclusion of 
     the individual in a watchlist, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. BABIN:
       H.R. 249. A bill to prohibit United States voluntary 
     contributions tothe regular budget of the United Nations or 
     any United Nations agency, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on ForeignAffairs.
           By Mr. BIGGS (for himself, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
             Schweikert, Mr.Gosar, and Ms. McSally):
       H.R. 250. A bill to amend title 28, United States Code, 
     todivide the ninth judicial circuit of the United States into 
     2 circuits, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     theJudiciary.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
       H.R. 251. A bill to directthe Administrator of the Small 
     Business Administration to establish a competitive grant 
     program to award grants to States andlocal governments for 
     purposes of assisting entrepreneurs planning to start a small 
     business concern; to the Committee on SmallBusiness.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas:
       H.R. 252. A bill to providehousing assistance for very low-
     income veterans; to the Committee on Financial Services, and 
     in addition to the Committee onWays and Means, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions asfall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BUCHANAN (for himself and Mr.Levin):
       H.R. 253. A bill to amend parts B and E of title IV of the 
     Social Security Act toinvest in funding prevention and family 
     services to help keep children safe and supported at home, to 
     ensure that children infoster care are placed in the least 
     restrictive, most family-like, and appropriate settings, and 
     for other purposes; to theCommittee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois (for himself, Mr. 
             Scott ofVirginia, Ms. Lee, Ms. DeLauro, and Mr. 
             Richmond):
       H.R. 254. A bill to reinstateFederal Pell Grant eligibility 
     for individuals incarcerated in Federal and State penal 
     institutions, and for other purposes; tothe Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. ESTY (for herself, Mrs. Comstock, Ms.Eddie 
             Bernice Johnson of Texas, and Mr. Smith of Texas):
       H.R. 255. A bill to authorizethe National Science 
     Foundation to support entrepreneurial programs for women; to 
     the Committee on Science, Space, andTechnology.
           By Mr. FARENTHOLD:
       H.R. 256. A bill to amend chapter 44of title 18, United 
     States Code, to provide that a member of the armed forces and 
     the spouse of that member shall have the samerights regarding 
     the receipt of firearms at the location of any duty station 
     of the member; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FRANKS of Arizona (for himself, Mr. DeSantis, 
             and Mr. Zeldin):
       H.R. 257. A bill to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of 
     Israel and to transfer to Jerusalem theUnited States Embassy 
     located in Tel Aviv; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. GABBARD(for herself, Mr. Welch, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
             Massie, Ms. Lee, and Mr. Yoho):
       H.R. 258. A bill to prohibit the use of United States 
     Government funds to provide assistance to Al Qaeda, Jabhat 
     Fatehal-Sham, and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant 
     (ISIL) and to countries supporting those organizations, and 
     for otherpurposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Intelligence (Permanent 
     Select), for a periodto be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdictionof the committee concerned.
           By Miss GONZALEZ-COLON of Puerto Rico:
       H.R. 259. A bill to prevent the territories of the United 
     States from losing current Medicaid funding; to the 
     Committeeon Energy and Commerce.
           By Miss GONZALEZ-COLON of Puerto Rico:
       H.R. 260. A bill to enable the admission of the Territory 
     of Puerto Rico into the Union as a State, and for 
     otherpurposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Miss GONZALEZ-COLON of Puerto Rico:
       H.R. 261. A bill to amend part B of the title XVIII of the 
     Social Security Act to apply deemedenrollment to residents of 
     Puerto Rico; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways andMeans, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fallwithin the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas:
       H.R. 262. A bill to establish the Buffalo Bayou National 
     Heritage Area in the State of Texas, and for otherpurposes; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. LAMBORN (for himself and Mr. Franksof Arizona):
       H.R. 263. A bill to render United Nations Security Council 
     Resolution 2334 null andvoid as a matter of United States 
     law, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           ByMr. LAMBORN (for himself and Mr. Franks of Arizona):
       H.R. 264. A bill to prohibit theuse of funds for assessed 
     or voluntary contributions to the United Nations until the 
     submission of certain reports on suchfunding, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

[[Page H95]]

  

           By Mr. LANCE:
       H.R. 265. A bill to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of 
     Israel, to relocate to Jerusalem theUnited States Embassy in 
     Israel, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Mr.LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 266. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and 
     Safe Streets Act of1968 to provide that COPS grant funds-may 
     be used to hire and train new, additional career law 
     enforcement officers who areresidents of the communities they 
     serve, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           ByMr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 267. A bill to redesignate the Martin Luther King, 
     Junior,National Historic Site in the State of Georgia, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 268. A bill to amend the National Highway 
     SystemDesignation Act of 1995 to permit the construction of 
     certain noise barriers with funds from the Highway Trust 
     Fund, and forother purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 269. A bill to eliminate the requirement that, to be 
     eligible for foster care maintenancepayments, a child would 
     have been eligible for aid under the former program of Aid to 
     Families with Dependent Children at thetime of removal from 
     the home; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 270. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide support to environmentaljustice communities and 
     environmental justice projects; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr.LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 271. A bill to reauthorize the Assets for Independence 
     Act, to providefor the approval of applications to operate 
     new demonstration programs and to renew existing programs, to 
     enhance programflexibility, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 272. A bill to amend title XX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide grants to support jobcreation initiatives, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. LEWIS ofGeorgia:
       H.R. 273. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide an income taxcredit for the costs of certain 
     infertility treatments; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr.MOULTON (for himself, Mr. Hurd, Mr. Meadows, Mrs. 
             Bustos, and Mr. Swalwell of California):
       H.R. 274. A bill to provide for reimbursement for the use 
     of modern travel services by Federalemployees traveling on 
     official Government business, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and GovernmentReform.
           By Mr. PERRY (for himself and Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 275. A bill to prevent diversion of funds from the 
     Crime Victims Fund; to the Committee onRules, and in addition 
     to the Committee on the Budget, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each casefor 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           ByMrs. RADEWAGEN:
       H.R. 276. A bill a bill to amend title 49, United States 
     Code, to ensurereliable air service in American Samoa; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr.ROE of Tennessee (for himself, Mr. Walker, Mr. 
             Rokita, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Flores, Mr. Barr, Mr.Carter of 
             Georgia, Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr. Duncan of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Hill, Mr. Chabot,Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. 
             Rouzer, Mr. Culberson, Mrs. Hartzler, Mr. Babin, Mr. 
             Bucshon, and Mr.Scalise):
       H.R. 277. A bill to repeal the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act andrelated reconciliation provisions, to 
     promote patient-centered health care, to provide for the 
     creation of a safe harbor fordefendants in medical 
     malpractice actions who demonstrate adherence to clinical 
     practice guidelines, and for other purposes; tothe Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on 
     the Budget, Ways and Means, Education and theWorkforce, the 
     Judiciary, Natural Resources, House Administration, Rules, 
     Appropriations, and Veterans' Affairs, for a period tobe 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction ofthe committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROSS:
       H.R. 278. A bill to amend theIllegal Immigration and 
     Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 to direct the Secretary 
     of Homeland Security to complete therequired 700-mile 
     southwest border fencing by December 31, 2016, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Ms. STEFANIK:
       H.R. 279. A bill to amend title 10, United StatesCode, to 
     provide a period for the relocation of spouses and dependents 
     of certain members of the Armed Forces undergoing apermanent 
     change of station in order to ease and facilitate the 
     relocation of military families, and for other purposes; to 
     theCommittee on Armed Services.
           By Ms. STEFANIK:
       H.R. 280. A bill toamend the Workforce Innovation and 
     Opportunity Act to ensure dislocated workers are provided 
     consultation and advice forstarting a small business as part 
     the rapid response activities for dislocated workers; to the 
     Committee on Education and theWorkforce.
           By Ms. STEFANIK:
       H.R. 281. A bill to amend theImmigration and Nationality 
     Act to simplify the petitioning procedure for H-2A workers, 
     to expand the scope of the H-2A program,and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. STEFANIK:
       H.R. 282. A bill to amend the Servicemembers Civil Relief 
     Act to authorize spouses of servicemembers to elect to use 
     thesame residences as the servicemembers; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. STEFANIK:
       H.R. 283. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow without penalty any 529 plandistributions used for 
     student loans payments; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms.STEFANIK:
       H.R. 284. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to establish rulesfor payment for graduate 
     medical education (GME) costs for hospitals that establish a 
     new medical residency training programafter hosting resident 
     rotators for short durations; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, and in addition to the Committee onEnergy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of suchprovisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. TURNER (forhimself, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Duncan 
             of South Carolina, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. McClintock, 
             Mr. Mullin,Mr. Roe of Tennessee, and Mr. Rogers of 
             Alabama):
       H.R. 285. A bill to amend theInternal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to repeal the individual and employer health insurance 
     mandates; to the Committee on Ways andMeans.
           By Mr. TURNER (for himself and Mr. Joyce of Ohio):
       H.R.286. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to exempt certain emergency medical devices from the excise 
     tax onmedical devices, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. TURNER:
       H.R. 287. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to exempt student workers for purposesof determining a higher 
     education institution's employer health care shared 
     responsibility; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. WALDEN (for himself and Mr. Loebsack):
       H.R. 288. A billto ensure that small business providers of 
     broadband Internet access service can devote resources to 
     broadband deployment ratherthan compliance with cumbersome 
     regulatory requirements; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           ByMr. LaMALFA:
       H.R. 289. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the Interior 
     and the Secretaryof Agriculture to issue permits for 
     recreation services on lands managed by Federal agencies, and 
     for other purposes; to theCommittee on Natural Resources, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Agriculture, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined bythe Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WALDEN (for himself and Mr. Kinzinger):
       H.R. 290. Abill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to 
     provide for greater transparency and efficiency in the 
     procedures followed bythe Federal Communications Commission, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. YOHO (for himself, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Sinema, Mr. 
             Pittenger, Mr. Massie, Mr. Gohmert,Mr. Flores, Mr. 
             Rouzer, Mr. Poliquin, Mrs. Blackburn, and Mr. Olson):
       H.R. 291. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     extend the basis for the denial of retirement credit, 
     forservice as a Member of Congress, to include conviction of 
     any felony under Federal or State law, and for other 
     purposes; to theCommittee on House Administration, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, 
     for a period to besubsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of thecommittee concerned.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska (for himself and Mr. Ruiz):
       H.R. 292. A bill to amend the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
     Deficit Control Act of 1985 to exempt Alaska Native 
     andAmerican Indian programs from sequestration; to the 
     Committee on the Budget.
           By Mr. YOUNG ofAlaska:
       H.R. 293. A bill to extend the authorization of 
     appropriations to the Department ofVeterans Affairs for 
     purposes of awarding grants to veterans service organizations 
     for the transportation of highly ruralveterans; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BYRNE:
       H.J.Res. 14. A joint resolution proposing a balanced budget 
     amendment to the Constitution of the United States; to the 
     Committee onthe Judiciary.
           By Mr. AMASH:
       H.J. Res. 15. A joint resolutionproposing a balanced budget 
     amendment to the Constitution of the United States; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.

[[Page H96]]

  

           By Mr. LAMBORN:
       H.J. Res. 16. A joint resolutiondisapproving a rule 
     submitted by the Department of the Interior known as the 
     ``Stream Protection Rule''; to the Committee onNatural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. PALAZZO (for himself and Mr. Sanford):
       H.J. Res. 17. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States to limit the number 
     ofconsecutive terms that a Member of Congress may serve; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr.PERRY:
       H.J. Res. 18. A joint resolution proposing a balanced 
     budget amendment to theConstitution requiring that each 
     agency and department's funding is justified; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HASTINGS:
       H. Con. Res. 4. Concurrent resolution expressingsupport for 
     temporary protected status for Haitian nationals currently 
     residing in the United States, and for other purposes; tothe 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subsequently 
     determinedby the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. WELCH (for himself, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Ms. Schakowsky,Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
             DeFazio, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Langevin, 
             Ms. Speier, Ms. JacksonLee, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, 
             Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Connolly, Mr. 
             Keating, Mr.Grijalva, Mr. Kind, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. Gene 
             Green ofTexas, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Schiff, 
             Mr. Nadler, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Michael F. Doyle 
             ofPennsylvania, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. 
             Carson of Indiana, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Loebsack, 
             Mrs.Watson Coleman, Mr. Lynch, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
             Cooper, Ms. Pingree, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grishamof New 
             Mexico, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Brendan F. 
             Boyle of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Cummings):
       H. Con. Res. 5. Concurrent resolution clarifying any 
     potential misunderstanding as to whether actionstaken by 
     President-elect Donald Trump constitute a violation of the 
     Emoluments Clause, and calling on President-elect Trump 
     todivest his interest in, and sever his relationship to, the 
     Trump Organization; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     GovernmentReform.

                          ____________________



