

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H55-H56]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           JUMP-START AMERICA

  The SPEAKERpro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas 
(Mr. Williams) for 5 minutes.
  Mr.WILLIAMS. Mr. Speaker, last November, the American people spoke 
loud and clear about wanting real change in Washington. TheAmerican 
people want Washington to work for them--no more empty promises and no 
more talk.
  Mr. Speaker, the American peoplewant their government to act, and 
Congress' time to act is now. I come here today to offer a solution to 
an issue that has beendiscussed, but not truly acted on, for decades. 
Time and time again, from Congress to Congress, lawmakers come down to 
thisfloor to talk about the need for tax reform.
  As a current small business owner for all of my working life, I 
understand whatis killing small businesses firsthand. Since I came to 
Congress, I have been outspoken on the need to reform our Tax Code, and 
Ihave a proposal to make it happen. My tax reform plan will simplify 
our Tax Code. It will give job creators the tools they needto succeed 
and empower America's greatest asset--the American worker. My tax 
reform plan will do exactly what its name says itwill do--jump-start 
America.
  Today, the Internal Revenue Code is often called complicated, 
uncompetitive, and unfair; andrightfully so. According to the Tax 
Foundation, Federal tax laws and regulations have grown to more than 10 
million words inlength. Imagine how much easier tax season would be for 
all of us if we shrank our individual income tax thresholds to 
twobrackets. What if our Tax Code actually put American taxpayers 
first, in other words, treated us like a customer?
  The UnitedStates has the highest corporate tax rate in the free 
world. Sure, deductions, exclusions, and tax credits occasionally 
lowerthat rate, but these add further to the Tax Code's complexity, and 
they allow carve-outs for special interests.
  To those whobelieve our corporate tax rate is okay the way it is, I 
ask you to consider why American companies are moving their 
headquartersoverseas. In order to incentivize these companies to return 
their investments in expansion and employment back home in America,my 
plan will implement a permanent tax holiday to allow repatriation of 
funds at 5 percent.
  While the corporate tax rate isputting the United States at a 
disadvantage in the global economy which we all live, the most unfair 
tax facing many Americansis inheritance tax. The death tax, as it is 
more commonly referred to, is a form of double taxation that can take a 
generation'sworth of sweat equity and hard work and destroy it if a 
family business, for example, is passed down to a next of kin.
  Thatis what nearly happened to me after the death of my parents. 
Fortunately for me, I was able to gather the resources to keep 
myfather's business afloat. Many of my friends have not been so lucky.
  We cannot force owners and operators to sell off partsof a business 
just so the Federal Government can collect a few extra dollars equal to 
less than 1 percent of Federal revenue.Especially considering our 
government is running a huge deficit and a $20 trillion national debt, 
I would argue that the privatesector is a much better steward of 
budgeting, investing, and creating return on investment than the 
Federal Government. That iswhy Jump-Start America will repeal the death 
tax once and for all.
  These are a few of the notable reforms of Jump-StartAmerica that I 
talk about on the road in Texas and nationwide. Jump-Start America has 
gained the support of Americans for TaxReform and former Congressional 
Budget Office Director Douglas Holtz-Eakin. It was called ``a good 
plan'' by the Cato Institute.
  As a small business owner, I can tell you my plan will put people 
back to work, encourage business and individuals to spendmoney they 
didn't have before, and grow the economy. It is a thing called the 
American Dream. While Jump-Start America is asmall business perspective 
on tax reform, it will benefit every American individually and our 
Nation as a whole.
  Mr.Speaker, I ask my colleagues, especially the newer Members, to 
familiarize themselves with my plan as we work to implement 
anaggressive pro-

[[Page H56]]

growth agenda under new leadership on the other end of Pennsylvania 
Avenue.
  In God We Trust.

                          ____________________



