

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 53 (Monday, March 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 53 (Monday, March 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1993]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   WEEK ON THE STATUS OF BLACK WOMEN

  Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Mr. President, I wish to request that the U.S. 
Government officially recognize the last week in March as the Week on 
the Status of Black Women. During the week of March 27, 2017, as part 
of Women's History Month and in honor of the United Nations Declaration 
designating 2015 as the Decade of Afro-Descendants, this week marks the 
perfect occasion on which to begin an annual recognition and 
celebration of Black women's contributions to American society.
  Black women have long gone above and beyond the call of duty in their 
contributions to American society through civic engagement, high voter 
turnout, and serving as leaders in their communities. Even in the face 
of grave oppression throughout our Nation's history, Black women have 
continued to stand strong and contribute to the well-being of their 
families, communities, and our country as a whole. A recognition of the 
Week on the Status of Black Women by the Trump administration and 
Congress would send a clear message that the Federal Government 
recognizes the unique struggles and achievements of Black women in 
America.
  Black women have consistently played a leading role in shaping our 
Nation's history, often behind the scenes and with little recognition. 
Harriet Tubman escaped slavery and bravely returned to the enslaved 
South over a dozen times to lead her people to freedom on the 
Underground Railroad. A century later, Rosa Parks witnessed the 
oppression of her fellow Black women and took an active role in 
organizing the Montgomery Bus Boycott, while also taking up Black 
women's sexual harassment claims. Today, a Black woman, Carla Hayden, 
is our Nation's Librarian of Congress. Recognition of the Week on the 
Status of Black Women would honor the sacrifices of women such as 
Harriet Tubman and Rosa Parks, who paved the way for so many Black 
women in public service, business, and other industries today.
  Yet even as Black women throughout our Nation's history have been 
leaders in American civic life, Black women today still continue to 
face many undue burdens. No one in America should have to choose 
between earning a paycheck and taking care of their family, but too 
many Black women who serve as primary family breadwinners are forced to 
make this painful choice. Black women continue to earn less than their 
male counteiparts and also less than women who are not Black. Black 
women remain at the economic margins of society, and we all have a 
responsibility to help fix that.
  This year, a coalition of organizations advocating for the well-being 
of women and communities of color will partner to elevate the stories, 
histories, and realities of Black women's lives. Each day of the week, 
starting on March 27 and continuing through March 31, will focus on a 
different challenge Black women face in society today, ranging from 
disproportionate experience with police violence to discriminatory 
media representation. Exploring these issues and acknowledging the 
centrality of Black women to our history and social fabric, along with 
recognizing the unique intersection of gendered and racialized 
inequities they face, is critical. As we continue to work to extend 
equal rights to all Americans, we must ensure that Black women are a 
leading part of this movement. I hope and request that this year will 
be a continuation of years past in celebration and intentional 
recognition of Black women in America through the Week on the Status of 
Black Women.

                          ____________________



