

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 41 (Thursday, March 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1742-S1743]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. SANDERS (for himself and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 586. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to modify the treatment of foreign corporations, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. ROBERTS:
       S. 587. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to limit substantiation requirements for charitable 
     contributions to returns submitted by the donor; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Mr. Thune, Mr. Schatz, Mr. 
             Toomey, and Ms. Heitkamp):
       S. 588. A bill to require the Securities and Exchange 
     Commission to clarify what constitutes a general solicitation 
     under the Federal securities laws, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. KING:
       S. 589. A bill to amend the Federal Election Campaign Act 
     of 1971 to require all political committees to notify the 
     Federal Election Commission within 48 hours of receiving 
     cumulative contributions of $1,000 or more from any 
     contributor during a calendar year, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Rules and Administration.
           By Mr. RISCH (for himself and Mr. Crapo):
       S. 590. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     maintain or replace certain facilities and structures for 
     commercial recreation services at Smith Gulch in Idaho, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Ms. Collins, Ms. Baldwin, 
             Mr. Bennet, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Brown, Mr. Coons, Mr. 
             Durbin, Mr. Franken, Mr. King, Mr. Murphy, Mr. 
             Schatz, Mr. Sanders, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Tester, Mr. 
             Warner, and Ms. Cantwell):
       S. 591. A bill to expand eligibility for the program of 
     comprehensive assistance for family caregivers of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs, to expand benefits available 
     to participants under such program, to enhance special 
     compensation for members of the uniformed services who 
     require assistance in everyday life, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mr. Rounds, and Mr. Perdue):
       S. 592. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     support meeting the increasing needs of the United States for 
     a cybersecurity and information assurance workforce by 
     reinvigorating and modifying the Information Assurance 
     Scholarship Program of the Department of Defense, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mrs. CAPITO (for herself, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Bennet, 
             and Ms. Heitkamp):
       S. 593. A bill to amend the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife 
     Restoration Act to facilitate the establishment of additional 
     or expanded public target ranges in certain States; to the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr. Cruz, and Mr. Leahy):
       S. 594. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to work with cybersecurity consortia for training, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
     and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself, Mr. McCain, and Mr. 
             Johnson):
       S. 595. A bill to provide U.S. Customs and Border 
     Protection with additional flexibility to expedite the hiring 
     process for applicants for law enforcement positions, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Mr. Schumer, Mr. 
             Markey, Mr. Menendez, and Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 596. A bill to direct the Administrator of the Federal 
     Aviation Administration to prescribe regulations establishing 
     minimum standards for space for passengers on passenger 
     aircraft, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. Toomey, Mr. Donnelly, 
             and Ms. Collins):
       S. 597. A bill to increase Federal Pell Grants for the 
     children of fallen public safety officers, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and Mr. Paul):

[[Page S1743]]

  

       S. 598. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide an above-the-line deduction for child care 
     expenses, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. DONNELLY (for himself and Mr. Young):
       S. 599. A bill to redesignate the Indiana Dunes National 
     Lakeshore as the ``Indiana Dunes National Park'', and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Ms. Duckworth):
       S. 600. A bill to require rulemaking by the Administrator 
     of the Federal Emergency Management Agency to address 
     considerations in evaluating the need for public and 
     individual disaster assistance, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. Wicker, Mr. Reed, Mr. 
             Cochran, Mr. Merkley, and Mr. Brown):
       S. 601. A bill to ensure that significantly more students 
     graduate college with the international knowledge and 
     experience essential for success in today's global economy 
     through the establishment of the Senator Paul Simon Study 
     Abroad Program in the Department of Education; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Mr. Carper):
       S. 602. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to include automated fire sprinkler system retrofits as 
     section 179 property and classify certain automated fire 
     sprinkler system retrofits as 15-year property for purposes 
     of depreciation; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BENNET:
       S. 603. A bill for the relief of Jeanette Vizguerra-
     Ramirez; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself, Mr. Daines, and Mrs. 
             Fischer):
       S. 604. A bill to allow certain State permitting authority 
     to encourage expansion of broadband service to rural 
     communities, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr. Tester):
       S. 605. A bill to amend the Forest and Rangeland Renewable 
     Resources Planning Act of 1974 and the Federal Land Policy 
     and Management Act of 1976 to discourage litigation against 
     the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management relating 
     to land management projects; to the Committee on Environment 
     and Public Works.
           By Mr. NELSON (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. 
             Klobuchar, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Casey, 
             and Mr. Brown):
       S. 606. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to prevent taxpayer identity theft and tax refund fraud, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CRUZ:
       S.J. Res. 37. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by the Department of 
     Energy relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Test 
     Procedures for Compressors''; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.

                          ____________________



