

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 5 (Monday, January 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 5 (Monday, January 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S154]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. HELLER (for himself and Mr. Heinrich):
       S. 58. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
     repeal the excise tax on high cost employer-sponsored health 
     coverage; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CRAPO (for himself, Mr. Moran, and Mr. Paul):
       S. 59. A bill to provide that silencers be treated the same 
     as long guns; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. ALEXANDER (for himself and Mr. Corker):
       S. 60. A bill to designate the Federal building and United 
     States courthouse located at 719 Church Street in Nashville, 
     Tennessee, as the ``Fred D. Thompson Federal Building and 
     United States Courthouse''; to the Committee on Environment 
     and Public Works.
           By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself, Ms. Murkowski, Mr. Wyden, 
             Mrs. Murray, Mr. Merkley, and Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 61. A bill to remove the sunset provision of section 203 
     of Public Law 105-384 and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself and Mr. McCain):
       S. 62. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the Interior to 
     establish the January 8th National Memorial in Tucson, 
     Arizona, as an affiliated area of the National Park System, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. MORAN (for himself, Mr. Crapo, Mr. Daines, Mr. 
             Flake, Mr. Gardner, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Lankford, Mr. 
             McCain, Mr. Thune, Mr. Wicker, and Mr. Risch):
       S. 63. A bill to clarify the rights of Indians and Indian 
     tribes on Indian lands under the National Labor Relations 
     Act; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. McCAIN:
       S. 64. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic 
     Act to allow for the personal importation of safe and 
     affordable drugs from approved pharmacies in Canada; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr. Cardin, Mrs. Feinstein, 
             Mr. Coons, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Leahy, Mrs. 
             Murray, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Reed, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Brown, 
             Mr. Casey, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Bennet, 
             Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Franken, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. 
             Baldwin, Mr. Markey, Mr. Booker, Mr. Peters, and Ms. 
             Duckworth):
       S. 65. A bill to address financial conflicts of interest of 
     the President and Vice President; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. HELLER (for himself and Mr. Tester):
       S. 66. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     permit certain retired members of the uniformed services who 
     have a service-connected disability to receive both 
     disability compensation from the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs for their disability and either retired pay by reason 
     of their years of military service or Combat-Related Special 
     Compensation, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mr. CRUZ (for himself and Mr. Inhofe):
       S. 67. A bill to direct the Secretary of State to submit to 
     Congress a report on the designation of Iran's Revolutionary 
     Guard Corps as a foreign terrorist organization, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Inhofe, and 
             Mr. Roberts):
       S. 68. A bill to require the Secretary of State to submit a 
     report to Congress on the designation of the Muslim 
     Brotherhood as a foreign terrorist organization, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. ROBERTS (for himself, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Flake, Mr. 
             Crapo, and Mr. Wicker):
       S. 69. A bill to codify and modify regulatory requirements 
     of Federal agencies; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
     and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. ENZI (for himself and Mr. Barrasso):
       S. 70. A bill to designate the mountain at the Devils Tower 
     National Monument, Wyoming, as Devils Tower, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. NELSON (for himself and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 71. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
     temporarily allow expensing of certain costs of replanting 
     citrus plants lost by reason of casualty; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. NELSON:
       S. 72. A bill to require that certain information relating 
     to terrorism investigations be included in the NICS database, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. NELSON (for himself and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 73. A bill to provide standards for physical condition 
     and management of housing receiving assistance payments under 
     section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937; to the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. NELSON:
       S. 74. A bill to improve the ability of the National 
     Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the Coast Guard, and 
     coastal States to sustain healthy ocean and coastal 
     ecosystems by maintaining and sustaining their capabilities 
     relating to oil spill preparedness, prevention, response, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
     and Transportation.
           By Mrs. McCASKILL (for herself and Mr. Blunt):
       S. 75. A bill to provide for the reconsideration of claims 
     for disability compensation for veterans who were the 
     subjects of experiments by the Department of Defense during 
     World War II that were conducted to assess the effects of 
     mustard gas or lewisite on people, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.

                          ____________________



