

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 48 (Monday, March 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 48 (Monday, March 20, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2188]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        NATIONAL AGRICULTURE DAY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Minnesota (Mr. Emmer) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, in recognition of National Agriculture Day, I 
rise to honor and thank the men and women who feed our Nation.
  Agriculture is one of the most important sectors in our economy. It 
is cultivated and maintained by our Nation's farmers who rise before 
the sun every day and work long hours 7 days a week so that Americans 
can have safe, quality food to feed their families. It is not an easy 
job, but it is certainly an important one.
  In order to fully honor and appreciate our farmers and their devotion 
to the agriculture industry, we must do more than recognize their hard 
work 1 day a year. We must also invest in and work to better the 
agriculture industry every day of the year. That is why, for as long as 
I serve in Congress, I will continue to meet with, work for, and 
advocate on behalf of our farmers.
  Happy National Agriculture Day, and a huge thank-you to every 
American farmer.


Celebrating Jeff Amacher's 20 Years of Service with the Centennial Fire 
                                District

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate Jeff Amacher of 
Circle Pines, Minnesota, for more than 20 years of service with the 
Centennial Fire District.
  Fighting fires and protecting Minnesotans is not an easy job, but it 
is one that is absolutely crucial to our community and the safety of 
our citizens. It takes a special kind of person to rush into a burning 
building and to put themselves in harm's way to save the life of 
another.
  I commend Jeff for exuding such bravery over the past 20 years. I not 
only would like to thank Jeff for his commitment to our community, but 
I want to congratulate him for being recognized for his brave work by 
the Circle Pines City Council.
  Jeff, we wish you a happy and peaceful retirement spent with your 
family and friends. After a life of service, you deserve it.


                        Recognizing U.S. Bancorp

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate U.S. Bancorp on 
being recently named the World's Most Admired Superregional Bank by 
Fortune Magazine. This is the seventh consecutive year they have 
received this honor, which is no small feat by any means.
  U.S. Bancorp has also been recognized by Fortune Magazine for ranking 
among the top ten companies spanning across all industries for 
upholding four of Fortune's nine key characteristics of reputation. The 
characteristics that U.S. Bancorp has maintained include: quality of 
management, long-term investment value, use of corporate assets, and 
financial soundness.
  Minnesotans can be proud of a Minnesota-based company that ranks as 
one of the world's best performers. This honor is undoubtedly due to 
the excellent work of the employees, as well as the extraordinary 
vision and leadership of those who run this fine company.
  Congratulations on your incredible accomplishment.


  Recognizing Thrivent Financial for Helping Minnesotans Acquire Homes

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Thrivent Financial 
for this amazing organization's work to help Minnesota families acquire 
a home.
  Thrivent Financial is a longtime partner of Habitat for Humanity. 
During the partnership, they have given more than $2 million in grants 
to build quality low-income housing so that 24 families in our 
community could afford to buy a home. This year, Thrivent has given 
another $66,000, which will be used to build the 25th home, this time 
for a family right here in St. Cloud, Minnesota.
  As a result of their service to Minnesota families, Thrivent has been 
inducted into the Habitat for Humanity's Business Partner Hall of Fame.
  I want to commend both Habitat for Humanity and Thrivent Financial on 
this excellent partnership, and thank them for their generous service 
to the residents of Minnesota.

                          ____________________



