

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2417-S2418]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION

  Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control 
Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain 
proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification, 
the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be 
reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the 
notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
  In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant 
information is available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous consent to 
have printed in the Record the notifications which have been received. 
If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is 
available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations 
Committee, room SD-423.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 16-80, 
     concerning the Army Corps of Engineers' proposed Letter(s) of 
     Offer and Acceptance to the Government of Kuwait for airbase 
     construction and services estimated to cost $319 million. 
     After this letter is delivered to your office, we plan to 
     issue a news release to notify the public of this proposed 
     sale.
           Sincerely,
                                                       J.W. Rixey,
                                      Vice Admiral, USN, Director.
       Enclosures.


                         Transmittal No. 16-80

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Kuwait.
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment * $ 0 million.
       Other $319 million.
       Total $319 million.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase:
       Non-MDE: Design, construction, and procurement of key 
     airfield operations, command and control, readiness, 
     sustainment, and life support facilities for the Al Mubarak 
     Airbase in Kuwait. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) 
     will provide project management, engineering services, 
     technical support, facility and infrastructure assessments, 
     surveys, planning, programming, design, acquisition, contract 
     administration, construction management, and other technical 
     services for the construction of facilities and 
     infrastructure for the airbase. The overall project includes, 
     among other features, a main operations center, hangars, 
     training facilities, barracks, warehouses, support 
     facilities, and other infrastructure required for a fully 
     functioning airbase.
       (iv) Military Department: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 
     (USACE) (HBE).
       (v) Prior Related Cases. if any: N/A.
       (vi) Sales Commission. Fee, etc., Paid. Offered, or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: None.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: April 6, 2017.
       * As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          policy justification

   Government of Kuwait--Facilities and Infrastructure Construction 
                            Support Service

       The Government of Kuwait has requested possible sale for 
     the design, construction, and procurement of key airfield 
     operations, command and control, readiness, sustainment, and 
     life support facilities for the Al Mubarak Airbase in Kuwait. 
     The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) will provide project 
     management, engineering services, technical support, facility 
     and infrastructure assessments, surveys, planning, 
     programming, design, acquisition, contract administration, 
     construction management, and other technical services for the 
     construction of facilities and infrastructure for the 
     airbase. The overall project includes, among other features, 
     a main operations center, hangars, training facilities, 
     barracks, warehouses, support facilities, and other 
     infrastructure required for a fully functioning airbase. The 
     estimated total cost is $319 million.
       The proposed sale will contribute to the foreign policy and 
     national security of the United States by supporting the 
     infrastructure needs of a friendly country which has been, 
     and continues to be, an important force for political 
     stability and economic progress in the Middle East.
       The facilities being constructed are similar to other 
     facilities built in the past by USACE in other Middle Eastern 
     countries. These facilities replace existing facilities and 
     will provide autonomous airbase operations to the Kuwait Air 
     Force. The new airbase will ensure the continued readiness of

[[Page S2418]]

     the Kuwait Air Force and allow for the continued education of 
     current and future Kuwait Air Force personnel. The 
     construction of this airbase will enable Kuwait to enhance 
     the operational effectiveness of its military and promote 
     security and stability throughout Kuwait. Kuwait will have no 
     difficulty absorbing this additional capability into its 
     armed forces.
       The proposed sale of this infrastructure and support will 
     not alter the basic military balance in the region.
       USACE is the principal organization that will direct and 
     manage this program. USACE will provide services through both 
     in-house personnel and contract services. The estimated 
     number of U.S. Government and contractor representatives to 
     be assigned to Kuwait to implement the provisions of this 
     proposed sale will be determined as a result of program 
     definitization.
       There are no known offset agreements proposed in connection 
     with this potential sale.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale. All defense articles and 
     services listed in this transmittal are authorized for 
     release and export to the Government of Kuwait.

                          ____________________



