

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H396]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     DIRE CONSEQUENCES OF OBAMACARE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Farenthold) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FARENTHOLD. Mr. Speaker, for the past several days, this morning 
during our morning-hour debate, I have been listeningto my colleagues 
across the aisle talking about the dire consequences the repeal of 
ObamaCare will have. Well, I have got totell you something. It is 
already having dire consequences. The law itself is having dire 
consequences.
  Americans like my constituent Dotty Legg from Victoria, Texas, wrote 
to my office with a desperate plea to get relief fromthe effects of 
ObamaCare. In 2012, Dotty's coverage was around $400 a month with a 
$2,500 deductible. In 2014, it went up toalmost $600. In 2015, $700 a 
month, and that is coverage for just one person.
  Well, in 2016, Dotty's carrier told her they could no longer cover 
her, so she had to go somewhere else. She went to anothercarrier and 
they only had an option that was almost $700 a month, and her 
deductible skyrocketed to $6,500. That is prettyunaffordable for 
something called the Affordable Care Act.
  I have got to tell you, back before ObamaCare, back before the 
Affordable Care Act, a policy with a $6,500 deductible wouldhave been 
one of the least expensive policies you could have bought. It would 
have been a catastrophic policy. We have got tofix this.
  It gets even worse. We don't see what goes on in 2017. The company is 
pulling out. Dotty can't find coverage at all.
  The Affordable Care Act is not affordable, and it is full of broken 
promises. Most of the promises made were broken withDotty. If you like 
your doctor, you can keep them. She hasn't been able to keep her 
doctor. Prices are going to go down? Comeon. If you like your policy, 
you are going to keep it. Didn't happen.
  We have got to fix this, and Republicans have a plan. We are going to 
work the plan. It is at better.gop. It is one of thosenew top-level 
domains, better.gop. We have got to fix it because ObamaCare is nothing 
but, as we say on the Internet, a big old#fail.


              Second Amendment Rights for Military Spouses

  Mr. FARENTHOLD. Mr. Speaker, I would also like to talk about our 
military spouses.
  We often overlook the tremendous sacrifice our military spouses make 
to support their husbands and wives. They often movefar from home and 
family to be with their spouse on military orders, but they give up 
their friends, the comfort of home, andeven some of their Second 
Amendment rights.
  The Gun Control Act of 1968 limits citizens' rights to purchase a 
handgun by requiring that it only be bought in the Statewhere they are 
considered residents. Exceptions were made for Active-Duty military 
members but not their spouses; and that iswhy I have introduced H.R. 
256, the Protect Our Military Families' Second Amendment Rights Act, 
which allows spouses of Active-Duty servicemembers to purchase firearms 
in the State where they live under their spouse's military orders.
  Military spouses should not be denied their Second Amendment rights 
because they choose to live with their husband or wifewhile they are 
deployed. Spouses have the right to defend themselves and their 
families, just like everyone else. While Ibelieve we must continue to 
push for things like constitutional carry, H.R. 256 is a good step in 
ensuring Second Amendmentrights are respected.

                              {time}  1030


       Congratulating Coach Jason Herring and the Refugio Bobcats

  Mr. FARENTHOLD. Mr. Speaker, on a lighter note, I would also like to 
congratulate Coach Jason Herring and the RefugioBobcats football team 
for winning their fourth Texas State AA championship.
  The Bobcats had a 15-1 record this school year and defeated Crawford 
in the championship game 23-20 in an impressivegame-winning 15-yard 
field goal by kicker Diego Gonzalez with only 8 seconds remaining.
  Quarterback Jacobe Avery was the championship game's offensive MVP, 
and linebacker Kobie Herring was named defensive MVP.This was an 
impressive year for the whole team.
  Winning is a Bobcat tradition. Congratulations, Refugio Bobcats.

                          ____________________



