

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H817-H820]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:


[[Page H818]]


  

           By Mr. SMITH of Washington (for himself, Mrs. Davis of 
             California, Mr. Cooper, Ms. Bordallo, Ms. Speier, Mr. 
             O'Rourke, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Heck, and Mr. Visclosky):
       H.R. 753. A bill to establish a fair and transparent 
     process that will result in the timely consolidation, 
     closure, and realignment of military installations inside the 
     United States and will realize improved efficiencies in the 
     cost and management of military installations, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Appropriations, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. STEWART (for himself and Ms. Meng):
       H.R. 754. A bill to award the Congressional Gold Medal to 
     Anwar Sadat in recognition of his heroic achievements and 
     courageous contributions to peace in the Middle East; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. SANFORD (for himself, Mr. Meadows, and Ms. 
             Pingree):
       H.R. 755. A bill to amend the REAL ID Act of 2005 to remove 
     the provision requiring each State to provide all other 
     States with electronic access to information contained in the 
     motor vehicle database of the State, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. CHAFFETZ (for himself, Mr. Cummings, Mr. 
             Meadows, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Connolly, and Mr. Ross):
       H.R. 756. A bill to restore the financial solvency and 
     improve the governance of the United States Postal Service in 
     order to ensure the efficient and affordable nationwide 
     delivery of mail, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Energy and Commerce, and Ways and Means, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CONNOLLY:
       H.R. 757. A bill to increase the rates of pay under the 
     statutory pay systems and for prevailing rate employees by 
     3.2 percent, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. SCHNEIDER (for himself and Mr. Yoho):
       H.R. 758. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize veterans who are entitled to educational assistance 
     under the Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Program of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs to use such entitlement to 
     participate in a career transition internship program for 
     veterans; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself and Mr. Renacci):
       H.R. 759. A bill to prohibit the Secretary of Labor from 
     enforcing any requirement that consumer reporting agencies 
     that serve only as a secure conduit to data from State 
     unemployment compensation agencies obtain and maintain an 
     individual's informed consent agreement when verifying income 
     and employment with such agencies, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. LYNCH (for himself and Mr. McKinley):
       H.R. 760. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     provide for certain index fund investments from the Postal 
     Service Retiree Health Benefits Fund, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. RENACCI (for himself, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. 
             Kelly of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Bucshon):
       H.R. 761. A bill to prohibit the use of premiums paid to 
     the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation as an offset for 
     other Federal spending; to the Committee on Rules, and in 
     addition to the Committee on the Budget, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN (for herself, Mr. Sherman, and Mr. 
             Garamendi):
       H.R. 762. A bill to provide for the restoration of legal 
     rights for claimants under holocaust-era insurance policies; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. POLIQUIN (for himself and Ms. Pingree):
       H.R. 763. A bill to clarify the boundary of Acadia National 
     Park, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ:
       H.R. 764. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide incentives for employer-provided employee housing 
     assistance, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, and in addition to the Committee on Financial 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ (for herself, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Meeks, 
             and Mr. Jeffries):
       H.R. 765. A bill to authorize programs and activities to 
     support transportation options in areas that are undergoing 
     extensive repair or reconstruction of transportation 
     infrastructure, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ:
       H.R. 766. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to establish a pilot program to expand 
     telehealth options under the Medicare program for individuals 
     residing in public housing located in health professional 
     shortage areas, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Mr. Kinzinger, Mr. Cardenas, 
             and Mrs. Wagner):
       H.R. 767. A bill to establish the Stop, Observe, Ask, and 
     Respond to Health and Wellness Training pilot program to 
     address human trafficking in the health care system; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DIAZ-BALART:
       H.R. 768. A bill to require the United States Postal 
     Service to designate a single, unique ZIP code for Miami 
     Lakes, Florida; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Ms. GRANGER (for herself and Mr. Zeldin):
       H.R. 769. A bill to prohibit voluntary or assessed 
     contributions to the United Nations until the President 
     certifies to Congress that United Nations Security Council 
     Resolution 2334 has been repealed; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. HIMES (for himself, Mr. Posey, Mr. King of New 
             York, Mr. Cooper, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. Fleischmann, 
             and Mr. Roe of Tennessee):
       H.R. 770. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
     to mint coins in recognition of American innovation and 
     significant innovation and pioneering efforts of individuals 
     or groups from each of the 50 States, the District of 
     Columbia, and the United States territories, to promote the 
     importance of innovation in the United States, the District 
     of Columbia, and the United States territories, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Mr. Connolly, Miss Rice of New York, 
             Mr. Cummings, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Moore, Mr. 
             Smith of Washington, Ms. Norton, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. 
             Foster, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Quigley, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, Ms. McCollum, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Capuano, Mr. 
             Kildee, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Ms. 
             Clarke of New York, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Nadler, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Meng, Ms. Michelle 
             Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Ellison, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Price of North Carolina, 
             Mr. Takano, Ms. DeGette, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Schiff, Ms. 
             DelBene, Mr. Norcross, Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. DeLauro, 
             Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Welch, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, 
             Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Ms. Titus, Ms. Castor of Florida, Ms. 
             Speier, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. 
             Engel, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Tonko, Mr. 
             Aguilar, Mr. Clay, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. Frankel 
             of Florida, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Danny K. 
             Davis of Illinois, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. McGovern, Ms. 
             Sanchez, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Conyers, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Perlmutter, Ms. Adams, Ms. 
             Jayapal, Mr. Swalwell of California, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. 
             Heck, Mrs. Lowey, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Bera, Mr. 
             Doggett, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Richmond, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Mr. Keating, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Payne, Mr. 
             Thompson of California, Mr. Schneider, Mrs. Davis of 
             California, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Khanna, Ms. 
             Tsongas, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Pocan, 
             Ms. Esty, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Pallone, Ms. Eddie Bernice 
             Johnson of Texas, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Evans, Mr. Peters, 
             and Mrs. Torres):
       H.R. 771. A bill to ensure affordable abortion coverage and 
     care for every woman, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Ways and Means, and Oversight and Government 
     Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS (for herself, Mr. Allen, Mr. 
             Barletta, Mr. Blum, Mr. Bucshon, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. 
             Collins of New York, Mr. Collins of Georgia, Mr. 
             Crawford, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Harris, Mrs. 
             Hartzler, Mr. Hudson, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, Mr. 
             Jones, Mr. Kind, Mr. Latta, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Mooney 
             of West Virginia, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. 
             Pearce, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Rothfus, Ms. Sinema, 
             Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Valadao, 
             Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Walberg, Mrs. Walorski, Mrs. Mimi

[[Page H819]]

             Walters of California, Mr. Walz, Mr. Westerman, and 
             Mr. Young of Iowa):
       H.R. 772. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to improve and clarify certain disclosure 
     requirements for restaurants and similar retail food 
     establishments, and to amend the authority to bring 
     proceedings under section 403A; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Ms. MENG:
       H.R. 773. A bill to require the Department of Defense to 
     utilize managed print services; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services.
           By Ms. MENG:
       H.R. 774. A bill to remove the limitation on Medicaid 
     coverage of tobacco cessation nonprescription drugs; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. MOOLENAAR:
       H.R. 775. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to inflation adjust the $5,000 limitation with respect to 
     dependent care assistance programs and flexible spending 
     arrangements; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER:
       H.R. 776. A bill to require that until a comprehensive 
     study is completed, the volume of cellulosic biofuel mandated 
     under the renewable fuel program be limited to what is 
     commercially available, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER:
       H.R. 777. A bill to provide for a comprehensive assessment 
     of the scientific and technical research on the implications 
     of the use of mid-level ethanol blends, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WELCH (for himself, Mr. Simpson, Mr. Duffy, Mr. 
             Courtney, Mr. Valadao, and Ms. DelBene):
       H.R. 778. A bill to require enforcement against misbranded 
     milk alternatives; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. WITTMAN:
       H.R. 779. A bill to restrict United States nationals from 
     traveling to countries in which foreign governments or anti-
     government forces allow foreign terrorist organizations to 
     engage in armed conflict for purposes of participating in 
     such armed conflict or from providing material support to 
     entities that are engaged in such armed conflict, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. LABRADOR (for himself, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, 
             Mr. Schweikert, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. Rice of South 
             Carolina, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Babin, 
             Mr. Byrne, Mr. Budd, Mr. Davidson, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. 
             Hudson, and Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia):
       H.J. Res. 50. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States to limit the number of 
     terms a Representative or Senator may serve; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee (for himself, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. 
             Rokita, Mr. Meehan, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Gosar, Mr. 
             Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Tipton, Mrs. Walorski, 
             Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Carter of Georgia, 
             Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. 
             Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. Williams, Mr. Gohmert, 
             Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. Emmer, Mr. Webster of 
             Florida, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Royce of 
             California, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Pearce, 
             Mr. Hill, Mr. Barletta, Mr. Bucshon, Mr. Culberson, 
             Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Burgess, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Long, 
             Mr. Turner, Mr. Messer, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. 
             Diaz-Balart, Mr. Murphy of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Luetkemeyer, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Yoder, Mr. Flores, 
             Mrs. Black, Mr. Smith of Nebraska, Mr. Sam Johnson of 
             Texas, Mr. Latta, Mr. Hensarling, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. 
             Hurd, Mr. Gowdy, Mr. McClintock, and Mr. Barr):
       H.J. Res. 51. A joint resolution approving the 
     discontinuation of the process for consideration and 
     automatic implementation of the annual proposal of the 
     Independent Medicare Advisory Board under section 1899A of 
     the Social Security Act; to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. NEWHOUSE (for himself, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Gosar, 
             Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Cramer, Mrs. Radewagen, Mr. 
             Sessions, and Mr. Biggs):
       H.J. Res. 52. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the final rule of the United States Fish and 
     Wildlife Service relating to ``Mitigation Policy''; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Ms. Adams, Ms. Barragan, 
             Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Bonamici, 
             Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. 
             Cardenas, Mr. Cartwright, Ms. Judy Chu of California, 
             Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Clarke 
             of New York, Mr. Clay, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Connolly, Mr. 
             Conyers, Mr. Cummings, Mr. DeFazio, Ms. DeGette, Mr. 
             Delaney, Ms. DeLauro, Ms. DelBene, Mr. DeSaulnier, 
             Mr. Deutch, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Engel, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. 
             Foster, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Gutierrez, 
             Mr. Higgins of New York, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Jeffries, 
             Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. 
             Keating, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. 
             Kildee, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Kind, Mr. Langevin, Mr. 
             Larsen of Washington, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, 
             Mr. Lynch, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Ms. 
             Matsui, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Moore, Mr. 
             Moulton, Mr. Nadler, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Norcross, 
             Ms. Norton, Mr. Pascrell, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Price of North Carolina, Mr. Quigley, Miss Rice of 
             New York, Mr. Richmond, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Rush, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Sarbanes, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Schrader, Mr. Serrano, 
             Ms. Sinema, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Smith of Washington, 
             Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Takano, Ms. Titus, 
             Mr. Tonko, Mrs. Torres, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Vargas, Mr. 
             Veasey, Mr. Walz, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Welch, 
             Mr. Yarmuth, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Courtney, Mrs. Davis of 
             California, Mr. Evans, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. 
             Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Levin, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. Peters, Mr. Heck, 
             Mr. Capuano, Mr. Himes, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. 
             Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Perlmutter, Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire, Mr. Gallego, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mrs. 
             Lawrence, Mr. Hastings, Mrs. Lowey, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Sherman, Mr. Payne, Mr. 
             Pallone, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Sires, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
             Kihuen, and Mrs. Watson Coleman):
       H.J. Res. 53. A joint resolution removing the deadline for 
     the ratification of the equal rights amendment; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ROKITA:
       H.J. Res. 54. A joint resolution disapproving the rule 
     submitted by the Department of the Treasury and the Internal 
     Revenue Service relating to documentation requirements for 
     certain related-party interests in a corporation to be 
     treated as indebtedness; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. STEWART (for himself, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Gohmert, 
             Mrs. Radewagen, Mr. Cramer, and Mr. Biggs):
       H.J. Res. 55. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the final rule of the Office of Natural 
     Resources Revenue relating to ``Amendments to Civil Penalty 
     Regulations''; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Natural Resources, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California (for herself, Ms. 
             Judy Chu of California, Ms. Lee, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Nadler, Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. Barragan, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, and Ms. Jackson Lee):
       H. Con. Res. 15. Concurrent resolution asserting that 
     Congress should expend the resources necessary to investigate 
     thoroughly the nature and extent of Russian interference in 
     the 2016 presidential election, including whether there was 
     collusion between persons associated with the Russian 
     government and persons associated with the presidential 
     campaign of Donald J. Trump to influence the outcome of the 
     election; to the Committee on House Administration, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SHUSTER (for himself and Mr. DeFazio):
       H. Res. 73. A resolution providing amounts for the expenses 
     of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure in the 
     One Hundred Fifteenth Congress; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Ms. DeLAURO (for herself, Mr. Smith of Washington, 
             Ms. Meng, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Ms. Roybal-
             Allard, Ms. Moore, Ms. Bordallo, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Tonko, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Mr. Pocan, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mr. Cohen, and Ms. Brownley of 
             California):
       H. Res. 75. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives regarding sexually exploited and 
     trafficked girls in

[[Page H820]]

     the United States; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. NUNES (for himself and Mr. Schiff):
       H. Res. 76. A resolution providing amounts for the expenses 
     of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence in the One 
     Hundred Fifteenth Congress; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Mr. THOMAS J. ROONEY of Florida (for himself and Mr. 
             Hastings):
       H. Res. 77. A resolution encouraging the development of 
     best business practices to fully utilize the potential of the 
     United States; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.

                          ____________________



