

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 38 (Monday, March 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 38 (Monday, March 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1536-H1537]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following

[[Page H1537]]

titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mrs. RADEWAGEN:
       H.R. 1362. A bill to name the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs community-based outpatient clinic in Pago Pago, 
     American Samoa, the Faleomavaega Eni Fa'aua'a Hunkin VA 
     Clinic; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. SARBANES (for himself, Mr. Wittman, Mr. 
             Connolly, Ms. Pingree, Ms. DelBene, and Mr. Lynch):
       H.R. 1363. A bill to amend section 5542 of title 5, United 
     States Code, to provide that any hours worked by Federal 
     firefighters under a qualified trade-of-time arrangement 
     shall be excluded for purposes of determinations relating to 
     overtime pay; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. JODY B. HICE of Georgia:
       H.R. 1364. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     limit the use of official time for political activity and to 
     exclude certain official time from eligibility as creditable 
     service under CSRS and FERS, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. CORREA (for himself and Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi):
       H.R. 1365. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to require certain acquisition innovation, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ (for herself, Mr. Duffy, Mr. Serrano, 
             and Mr. MacArthur):
       H.R. 1366. A bill to amend the Investment Company Act of 
     1940 to terminate an exemption for companies located in 
     Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and any other possession of 
     the United States; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. WENSTRUP:
       H.R. 1367. A bill to improve the authority of the Secretary 
     of Veterans Affairs to hire and retain physicians and other 
     employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself, Mrs. Davis of 
             California, Mr. Beyer, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of 
             New Mexico, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mr. Keating, Ms. Lee, Ms. Speier, Ms. Shea-
             Porter, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Peters, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. 
             Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle 
             of Pennsylvania, Mr. Welch, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Pocan, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Deutch, Ms. Pingree, Mr. 
             Schrader, Ms. Titus, Mr. Crist, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Langevin, Mr. 
             Quigley, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. Ted Lieu 
             of California, Ms. Jackson Lee, and Mr. Raskin):
       H.R. 1368. A bill to require the Secretary of Agriculture 
     to make publicly available certain regulatory records 
     relating to the administration of the Animal Welfare Act and 
     the Horse Protection Act, to amend the Internal Revenue Code 
     of 1986 to provide for the use of an alternative depreciation 
     system for taxpayers violating rules under the Animal Welfare 
     Act and the Horse Protection Act, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Agriculture, and Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. COLE:
       H.R. 1369. A bill to amend the Indian Health Care 
     Improvement Act to revise and extend that Act, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Energy and Commerce, Ways and 
     Means, and the Budget, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. McCAUL:
       H.R. 1370. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to require the Secretary of Homeland Security to issue 
     Department of Homeland Security-wide guidance and develop 
     training programs as part of the Department of Homeland 
     Security Blue Campaign, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. O'ROURKE:
       H.R. 1371. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to disclose to 
     non-Department of Veterans Affairs health care providers 
     certain medical records of veterans who receive health care 
     from such providers; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. PAYNE (for himself and Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi):
       H.R. 1372. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to ensure that the needs of children are considered in 
     homeland security planning, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WOMACK (for himself, Mr. Crawford, Mr. 
             Westerman, and Mr. Hill):
       H.R. 1373. A bill to prohibit the use of eminent domain in 
     carrying out certain projects; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Ms. MOORE:
       H. Res. 171. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of the week beginning March 5, 2017, as ``School 
     Social Work Week''; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself and Mr. Roskam):
       H. Res. 172. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the Government of the Russian 
     Federation, its officials, security services, and any person 
     or entity within the Russian Federation or associated with 
     the Russian Government, should not interfere, seek to 
     influence, or engage in coercion designed to create an 
     outcome in foreign elections; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.

                          ____________________



