

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 3 (Thursday, January 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 3 (Thursday, January 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H179-H182]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. OLSON (for himself, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Weber of 
             Texas, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Doggett, Mr. Veasey, Mr. 
             Cuellar, Mr. Vela, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Ms. 
             Granger, Mr. Carter of Texas, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. 
             Marchant, Mr. Williams, Mr. Culberson, Mr. McCaul, 
             Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. Barton, Mr. Conaway, Mr. 
             Babin, Mr. Ratcliffe, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Castro of 
             Texas, Mr. Thornberry, Mr. Burgess, Mr. Al Green of 
             Texas, Mr. Sam Johnson of Texas, Ms. Eddie Bernice 
             Johnson of Texas, Mr. Hurd, Mr. Hensarling, Mr. Brady 
             of Texas, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Sessions, Mr. 
             Flores, Mr. Arrington, and Mr. O'Rourke):
       H.R. 294. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 2700 Cullen Boulevard in 
     Pearland, Texas, as the ``Endy Ekpanya Post Office 
     Building''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. CALVERT (for himself, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Nunes, Mr. 
             Crawford, Ms. Granger, Mr. Rokita, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. 
             Knight, and Mr. Rohrabacher):
       H.R. 295. A bill to provide for a limitation on the number 
     of civilian employees at the Department of Defense, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. CHAFFETZ:
       H.R. 296. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to exclude major professional sports leagues from qualifying 
     as tax-exempt organizations; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. CHAFFETZ:
       H.R. 297. A bill to require greater accountability in 
     discretionary and direct spending programs, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Budget, and in addition to 
     the Committees on Rules, and the Judiciary, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CHAFFETZ:
       H.R. 298. A bill to require additional entities to be 
     subject to the requirements of section 552 of title 5, United 
     States Code (commonly referred to as the Freedom of 
     Information Act), and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. VALADAO (for himself, Mr. Walz, Ms. Stefanik, 
             Mr. Courtney, Mr. Ross, and Mr. LoBiondo):
       H.R. 299. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     clarify presumptions relating to the exposure of certain 
     veterans who served in the vicinity of the Republic of 
     Vietnam, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Iowa (for himself, Mr. Bacon, Mr. Blum, 
             Mr. Shimkus, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, and Mr. Gowdy):
       H.R. 300. A bill to require U.S. Immigration and Customs 
     Enforcement to take into custody certain aliens who have been 
     charged in the United States with a crime that resulted in 
     the death or serious bodily injury of another person, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Tonko, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Norton, Mr. Quigley, and 
             Mr. Cardenas):
       H.R. 301. A bill to require the National Institute of 
     Standards and Technology to establish a premise plumbing 
     research laboratory, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. GUTHRIE (for himself, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Abraham, 
             Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Carter of 
             Georgia, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. 
             Flores, Mr. Griffith, Mr. Hensarling, Mr. Jody B. 
             Hice of Georgia, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. 
             Kinzinger, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, 
             Mr. Meehan, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Thomas J. 
             Rooney of Florida, Mr. Royce of California, Mr. Ruiz, 
             Mr. Collins of New York, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, Mrs. Noem, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, Mr. 
             Walberg, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Issa, and 
             Mr. Conyers):
       H.R. 302. A bill to provide protections for certain sports 
     medicine professionals who provide certain medical services 
     in a secondary State; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS:
       H.R. 303. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     permit additional retired members of the Armed Forces who 
     have a service-connected disability to receive both 
     disability compensation from the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs for their disability and either retired pay by reason 
     of their years of military service or combat-related special 
     compensation; to the Committee on Armed Services, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HUDSON (for himself, Mr. Butterfield, Mrs. 
             Wagner, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mrs. Blackburn, 
             Mr. Lipinski, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Beutler, Mr. 
             Knight, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Emmer, Mr. Bilirakis, 
             Mr. Abraham, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Hastings, 
             Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 304. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act 
     with regard to the provision of emergency medical services; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. ESHOO (for herself, Mrs. Dingell, Ms. Jackson 
             Lee, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. Speier, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Thompson of California, Ms. Brownley of California, 
             Mr. Beyer, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. McCollum, Mr. 
             Kind, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Cohen, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
             Soto, and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 305. A bill to amend the Ethics in Government Act of 
     1978 to require the disclosure of certain tax returns by 
     Presidents and certain candidates for the office of the 
     President, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, and in addition to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. ESHOO (for herself and Mr. Kinzinger):
       H.R. 306. A bill to amend the Energy Independence and 
     Security Act of 2007 to promote energy efficiency via 
     information and computing technologies, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DAVIDSON:
       H.R. 307. A bill to ensure that Members of Congress and 
     Congressional staff receive health care from the Department 
     of Veterans Affairs instead of under the Federal Health 
     Benefits Program or health care exchanges; to the Committee 
     on House Administration, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. DAVIDSON (for himself, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. 
             Hensarling, Mr. Tiberi, Mr. Brat, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. 
             Abraham, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Hudson, Mr. King of Iowa, 
             Mr. Barr, Mr. Kelly of Mississippi, Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Marshall, Mr. Massie, Mr. Gibbs, 
             Mr. Byrne, Mr. McClintock, Mr. Tipton, Mr. Gosar, Mr. 
             Duffy, Mr. Turner, Mr. Harris, Mr. Walden, Mr. Rodney 
             Davis of Illinois, Mr. Blum, and Mrs. Love):
       H.R. 308. A bill to prevent proposed regulations relating 
     to restrictions on liquidation of an interest with respect to 
     estate, gift, and generation-skipping transfer taxes from 
     taking effect; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. OLSON (for himself, Mr. Loebsack, Ms. DeGette, 
             Ms. Sinema, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. 
             Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Serrano, Mr. King of New York, Mr. 
             Guthrie, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. Deutch, 
             Mr. Sessions, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Bucshon, Mr. 
             Bilirakis, Mr. Hensarling, and Mr. Allen):
       H.R. 309. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     foster more effective implementation and coordination of 
     clinical care for people with a complex metabolic or 
     autoimmune disease, a disease resulting from insulin 
     deficiency or insulin resistance, or complications caused by 
     such a disease, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO (for himself and Mr. Huffman):
       H.R. 310. A bill to withdraw certain land located in Curry 
     County and Josephine County, Oregon, from all forms of entry, 
     appropriation, or disposal under the public land laws, 
     location, entry, and patent under the mining laws, and 
     operation under the mineral leasing and geothermal leasing 
     laws, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. GOHMERT:
       H.R. 311. A bill to withhold United States assessed and 
     voluntary contributions to the United Nations, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself, Mr. Rohrabacher, Ms. 
             Beutler, Mr. Young of Alaska, Mr. Crist, Ms. Eddie 
             Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Issa, Mr. DeFazio, and 
             Ms. Jayapal):

[[Page H180]]

  

       H.R. 312. A bill to authorize and strengthen the tsunami 
     detection, forecast, warning, research, and mitigation 
     program of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
     Administration, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself and Mr. Hensarling):
       H.R. 313. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to establish a Social Security Surplus Protection Account 
     in the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund to 
     hold the Social Security surplus, to provide for suspension 
     of investment of amounts held in the Account until enactment 
     of legislation providing for investment of the Trust Fund in 
     investment vehicles other than obligations of the United 
     States, and to establish a Social Security Investment 
     Commission to make recommendations for alternative forms of 
     investment of the Social Security surplus in the Trust Fund; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself, Mr. Hensarling, Mr. 
             Guthrie, Mr. Olson, Mrs. Black, and Mr. Hudson):
       H.R. 314. A bill to repeal title I of the Patient 
     Protection and Affordable Care Act and to amend the Public 
     Health Service Act to provide for cooperative governing of 
     individual health insurance coverage offered in interstate 
     commerce; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Ways and Means, and Education 
     and the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. BURGESS (for himself, Ms. Eshoo, and Ms. Roybal-
             Allard):
       H.R. 315. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     distribute maternity care health professionals to health 
     professional shortage areas identified as in need of 
     maternity care health services; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. CAPUANO:
       H.R. 316. A bill to protect investors in futures contracts; 
     to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. CAPUANO:
       H.R. 317. A bill to direct the Securities and Exchange 
     Commission to require that repurchase-to-maturity 
     transactions be treated as secured borrowings; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. CAPUANO:
       H.R. 318. A bill to direct the Securities and Exchange 
     Commission to require any person subject to accounting 
     principles or standards under the securities laws to show all 
     transactions of such person on the balance sheet of such 
     person; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. CAPUANO:
       H.R. 319. A bill to amend the Federal Election Campaign Act 
     of 1971 to reduce the limit on the amount of certain 
     contributions which may be made to a candidate with respect 
     to an election for Federal office; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Mr. CAPUANO:
       H.R. 320. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     give members of the United States Capitol Police the option 
     to delay mandatory retirement until age 60; to the Committee 
     on House Administration, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. COMSTOCK (for herself, Ms. Eddie Bernice 
             Johnson of Texas, Mr. Smith of Texas, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Ms. Esty, Mr. Knight, Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Tipton, Mr. Young of Alaska, Mrs. 
             Blackburn, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Griffith, 
             Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Buchanan, Mr. 
             Poliquin, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. Hultgren, Mrs. 
             Walorski, Mr. Posey, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Bishop of 
             Michigan, Ms. McSally, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Calvert, Mr. 
             Denham, Mr. Hill, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. 
             Perlmutter, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Valadao, Ms. Adams, 
             Mr. Chabot, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. 
             Shimkus, Mr. Roskam, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Bost, Mr. 
             Emmer, Ms. Beutler, Mrs. McMorris Rodgers, Mr. 
             Westerman, and Ms. Ros-Lehtinen):
       H.R. 321. A bill to inspire women to enter the aerospace 
     field, including science, technology, engineering, and 
     mathematics, through mentorship and outreach; to the 
     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. DeSANTIS (for himself, Ms. Foxx, Mr. Massie, Mr. 
             Palazzo, and Mr. Blum):
       H.R. 322. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     provide for the termination of certain retirement benefits 
     for Members of Congress, except the right to continue 
     participating in the Thrift Savings Plan, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on House Administration, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH (for himself, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. 
             Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Jenkins of West Virginia, and 
             Mr. McKinley):
       H.R. 323. A bill to amend the Black Lung Benefits Act to 
     provide equity for certain eligible survivors, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself and Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of 
             New Mexico):
       H.R. 324. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide a higher Federal matching rate for increased 
     expenditures under Medicaid for mental and behavioral health 
     services, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Ms. LEE:
       H.R. 325. A bill to expand and enhance existing adult day 
     programs for younger people with neurological diseases or 
     conditions (such as multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, 
     traumatic brain injury, or other similar diseases or 
     conditions) to support and improve access to respite services 
     for family caregivers who are taking care of such people, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. LEE:
       H.R. 326. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     create a National Neuromyelitis Optica Consortium to provide 
     grants and coordinate research with respect to the causes of, 
     and risk factors associated with, neuromyelitis optica, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. LEE:
       H.R. 327. A bill to provide for United States participation 
     in the Inter-Parliamentary Union, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. LEE:
       H.R. 328. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide the work opportunity tax credit with respect to 
     the hiring of veterans in the field of renewable energy; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. LEE:
       H.R. 329. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide a tax credit for expenses for household and elder 
     care services necessary for gainful employment; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. LEE:
       H.R. 330. A bill to prohibit monetary payments by the 
     Federal Government to employees, officers, and elected 
     officials of foreign countries for purposes of bribery, 
     coercion, or any activity that is illegal or undermines the 
     rule of law or corrupts a public officer or the office such 
     officer represents, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Intelligence (Permanent Select), and in addition to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 331. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act so 
     as to exempt real property from civil forfeiture due to 
     medical marijuana-related conduct that is authorized by State 
     law; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Rush, and Ms. Moore):
       H.R. 332. A bill to provide for the issuance of the Peace 
     Corps Semipostal Stamp; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. BISHOP of Georgia:
       H.R. 333. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     permit retired members of the Armed Forces who have a 
     service-connected disability rated less than 50 percent to 
     receive concurrent payment of both retired pay and veterans' 
     disability compensation, to extend eligibility for concurrent 
     receipt to chapter 61 disability retirees with less than 20 
     years of service, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services, and in addition to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Conyers, and Mr. Serrano):
       H.R. 334. A bill to direct the Secretary of State, the 
     Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs to provide assistance for individuals 
     affected by exposure to Agent Orange, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Energy and Commerce, and Foreign Affairs, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 335. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide parity among States in the timing of the 
     application of higher Federal Medicaid matching rates for the 
     ACA-expansion population; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.

[[Page H181]]

  

           By Mr. MEADOWS (for himself, Mr. Connolly, Mrs. 
             Comstock, Mr. Schweikert, and Mr. Beyer):
       H.R. 336. A bill to provide transit benefits to Federal 
     employees who use the services of digital transportation 
     companies within the national capital region, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. NOEM:
       H.R. 337. A bill to transfer administrative jurisdiction 
     over certain Bureau of Land Management land from the 
     Secretary of the Interior to the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs for inclusion in the Black Hills National Cemetery, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, and in addition to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RUSH (for himself and Mr. Hudson):
       H.R. 338. A bill to promote a 21st century energy and 
     manufacturing workforce; to the Committee on Education and 
     the Workforce, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SABLAN:
       H.R. 339. A bill to amend Public Law 94-241 with respect to 
     the Northern Mariana Islands; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SERRANO:
       H.R. 340. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow a credit against tax for qualified manufacturing 
     facility construction costs and to allow a credit against tax 
     for qualified manufacturing facility construction costs; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SERRANO:
       H.R. 341. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to increase the deduction for start-up expenditures for 
     business for 2017 and 2018; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Ms. SINEMA (for herself, Mr. McCaul, Mrs. Bustos, 
             Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Ruiz, and Mr. Sanford):
       H.R. 342. A bill to repeal the provision of law that 
     provides automatic pay adjustments for Members of Congress; 
     to the Committee on House Administration, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SIRES:
       H.R. 343. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Housing and 
     Urban Development to establish a program enabling communities 
     to better leverage resources to address health, economic 
     development, and conservation concerns through needed 
     investments in parks, recreational areas, facilities, and 
     programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Education and the Workforce, and Natural Resources, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. STEFANIK:
       H.R. 344. A bill to amend the Forest Legacy Program of the 
     Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 to authorize 
     States to allow certain entities to acquire, hold, and manage 
     conservation easements under the program; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.
           By Mr. TROTT:
       H.R. 345. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     prohibit the President, the Vice President, Members of 
     Congress, and other officers of the executive branch from 
     lobbying on behalf of countries designated as countries of 
     particular concern for religious freedom for 10 years after 
     leaving office, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. TROTT:
       H.R. 346. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     establish a uniform 5-year post-employment ban on lobbying by 
     former Members of Congress, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN (for herself, Mr. McCaul, Mr. 
             Thompson of Mississippi, and Mr. Perry):
       H.R. 347. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to provide for requirements relating to documentation for 
     major acquisition programs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 348. A bill to more accurately identify and transfer 
     subsurface gravel sources originally intended to be made 
     available to the Ukpeagvik Inupiat Corporation in exchange 
     for its relinquishment of related property rights; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself and Mr. Cooper):
       H.J. Res. 19. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States to abolish the 
     electoral college and to provide for the direct election of 
     the President and Vice President of the United States; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DUFFY:
       H.J. Res. 20. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States to limit the number of 
     consecutive terms that a Member of Congress may serve; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. LEE:
       H. Con. Res. 6. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of Congress that the United States should provide, on an 
     annual basis, an amount equal to at least one percent of 
     United States gross domestic product for nonmilitary foreign 
     assistance programs; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. ROSS (for himself, Ms. Kaptur, and Mr. Harris):
       H. Con. Res. 7. Concurrent resolution directing the Joint 
     Committee on the Library to accept a statue commemorating the 
     Hungarian Revolution of 1956 for placement in the United 
     States Capitol, authorizing the use of the rotunda of the 
     Capitol for a ceremony for the presentation of the statue, 
     and directing the Architect of the Capitol to place the 
     statue in a suitable permanent location in the Capitol; to 
     the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. PRICE of North Carolina (for himself, Mr. Engel, 
             Mr. Connolly, Mr. Welch, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
             Courtney, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Larson of 
             Connecticut, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Ms. 
             Eshoo, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Deutch, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Kilmer, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Mr. Yarmuth, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Huffman, Mr. 
             Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. Adams, Ms. 
             Tsongas, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Kind, Ms. 
             McCollum, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Keating, 
             Mr. Sires, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Ms. 
             Fudge, Mr. Jeffries, Ms. DelBene, Ms. DeGette, Mr. 
             Beyer, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Levin, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. Castro 
             of Texas, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Schneider, Ms. Bass, Mr. 
             Lynch, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Cartwright, Mrs. Torres, Ms. 
             Blunt Rochester, Mr. Polis, Mr. Richmond, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Aguilar, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. 
             Schiff, Mr. Suozzi, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New 
             Mexico, Ms. Sanchez, Mrs. Lowey, Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. 
             Gabbard, Mr. Costa, Mr. Takano, Mr. Carbajal, Ms. 
             Rosen, Mr. Bera, Mr. Peters, Mr. Khanna, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mr. Espaillat, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Lipinski, 
             Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Sherman, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
             Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Panetta, Ms. 
             Sinema, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Ms. Hanabusa, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Delaney, Ms. Esty, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. 
             Foster, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Himes, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. 
             Speier, Mrs. Lawrence, Ms. Wilson of Florida, and Mr. 
             Scott of Virginia):
       H. Res. 23. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives and reaffirming long-standing United 
     States policy in support of a negotiated two-state solution 
     to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. CHAFFETZ:
       H. Res. 24. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the Federal Government should not 
     bail out State and local government employee pension plans or 
     other plans that provide post-employment benefits to State 
     and local government retirees; to the Committee on Education 
     and the Workforce.
           By Mr. CROWLEY:
       H. Res. 25. A resolution electing a Member to a certain 
     standing committee of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to. considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. JENKINS of West Virginia (for himself, Mr. 
             Rogers of Kentucky, Mr. McKinley, Mr. Griffith, and 
             Mr. Mooney of West Virginia):
       H. Res. 26. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the provisions of the Patient 
     Protection and Affordable Care Act that restored the original 
     black lung benefits eligibility requirements should not be 
     reduced but should be preserved and protected; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa:
       H. Res. 27. A resolution rejecting the ``two-state 
     solution'' as the United States' diplomatic policy objective 
     and calls for the Administration to advocate for a new 
     approach that prioritizes the State of Israel's sovereignty, 
     security, and borders; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mrs. DAVIS of California (for herself, Mr. Joyce of 
             Ohio, and Mr. King of New York):
       H. Res. 28. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the United States Postal Service 
     should take

[[Page H182]]

     all appropriate measures to ensure the continuation of door 
     delivery for all business and residential customers; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.

                          ____________________



