

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 23 (Thursday, February 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 23 (Thursday, February 9, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H1099]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. GOODLATTE:
       H.R. 985. A bill to amend the procedures used in Federal 
     court class actions and multidistrict litigation proceedings 
     to assure fairer, more efficient outcomes for claimants and 
     defendants, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. ROKITA (for himself, Mr. Cole, Mrs. Noem, Ms. 
             Moore, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. 
             Peterson, Mr. Mullin, Ms. Cheney, Mr. LaMalfa, and 
             Mr. Gosar):
       H.R. 986. A bill to clarify the rights of Indians and 
     Indian tribes on Indian lands under the National Labor 
     Relations Act; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. ROKITA (for himself, Mr. Barr, Mr. Olson, Mrs. 
             Black, Mr. Grothman, and Mr. Roe of Tennessee):
       H.R. 987. A bill to amend the National Labor Relations Act 
     to permit employers to pay higher wages to their employees; 
     to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. ELLISON:
       H.R. 988. A bill to provide for a study by the 
     Transportation Research Board of the National Academies on 
     the impact of diverting certain freight rail traffic to avoid 
     urban areas, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. COLE (for himself, Mr. Bishop of Utah, Mrs. 
             Bustos, Mr. Kilmer, and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 989. A bill to exempt certain Department of Defense 
     civilian positions from any furlough as a result of a lapse 
     in discretionary appropriations, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. COLE (for himself, Mr. Bishop of Utah, Mrs. 
             Bustos, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Kilmer, and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 990. A bill to prohibit any hiring freeze from 
     affecting Department of Defense civilian positions in 
     facilities that perform depot maintenance or are designated 
     as a center for industrial and technical excellence, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr. Cohen, and Ms. Clarke of 
             New York):
       H.R. 991. A bill to require the establishment of a Consumer 
     Price Index for Elderly Consumers to compute cost-of-living 
     increases for Social Security benefits under title II of the 
     Social Security Act and to provide, in the case of elderly 
     beneficiaries under such title, for an annual cost-of-living 
     increase which is not less than 3 percent; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, and Mr. Norcross):
       H.R. 992. A bill to authorize the Assistant Secretary for 
     Mental Health and Substance Use, acting through the Director 
     of the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment, to award grants 
     to States to expand access to clinically appropriate services 
     for opioid abuse, dependence, or addiction; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Mr. Swalwell of California, 
             and Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York):
       H.R. 993. A bill to reduce opioid misuse and abuse; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Ms. Herrera Beutler, Mr. 
             Kilmer, and Mr. Rokita):
       H.R. 994. A bill to direct the Comptroller General of the 
     United States to evaluate and report on the in-patient and 
     outpatient treatment capacity, availability, and needs of the 
     United States; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Natural Resources, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. JEFFRIES (for himself and Mr. Chabot):
       H.R. 995. A bill to direct the Secretary of Agriculture and 
     the Secretary of the Interior to amend regulations for racial 
     appropriateness; to the Committee on Natural Resources, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Agriculture, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KIHUEN:
       H.R. 996. A bill to direct the Secretary of Labor to 
     establish a competitive grant program for community colleges 
     to train veterans for local jobs; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa (for himself, Mr. Collins of 
             Georgia, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Barletta, Mr. Duncan of 
             South Carolina, and Mr. Franks of Arizona):
       H.R. 997. A bill to declare English as the official 
     language of the United States, to establish a uniform English 
     language rule for naturalization, and to avoid 
     misconstructions of the English language texts of the laws of 
     the United States, pursuant to Congress' powers to provide 
     for the general welfare of the United States and to establish 
     a uniform rule of naturalization under article I, section 8, 
     of the Constitution; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SMITH of Missouri (for himself and Mr. 
             Goodlatte):
       H.R. 998. A bill to provide for the establishment of a 
     process for the review of rules and sets of rules, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself and Mr. Kildee):
       H.R. 999. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to expand access to Coverdell education savings accounts; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CONYERS (for himself, Mr. Nadler, Ms. Kaptur, 
             Ms. Wilson of Florida, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Ellison, 
             Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Moore, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Grijalva, 
             Mr. Pocan, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Norton, Mr. Veasey, Mr. 
             Serrano, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. 
             Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Judy Chu 
             of California, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mrs. Beatty, 
             Mr. Nolan, and Mr. Raskin):
       H.R. 1000. A bill to establish the National Full Employment 
     Trust Fund to create employment opportunities for the 
     unemployed; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska (for himself, Mr. Pearce, Mr. 
             Gosar, Mr. Cramer, Mrs. Radewagen, Mr. Newhouse, and 
             Mr. Biggs):
       H.J. Res. 70. A joint resolution disapproving the rule 
     submitted by the Department of the Interior regarding 
     requirements for exploratory drilling on the Arctic Outer 
     Continental Shelf; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. NADLER:
       H. Res. 111. A resolution of inquiry directing the Attorney 
     General to transmit certain documents to the House of 
     Representatives relating to the financial practices of the 
     President; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. McCAUL (for himself and Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi):
       H. Res. 112. A resolution providing amounts for the 
     expenses of the Committee on Homeland Security in the One 
     Hundred Fifteenth Congress; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Mr. ROHRABACHER:
       H. Res. 113. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the United States should continue to 
     authorize cash flow financing to Egypt and expand other areas 
     of cooperation; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.

                          ____________________



