

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 12 (Monday, January 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 12 (Monday, January 23, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S398-S399]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. LEE (for himself and Mr. Cruz):
       S. 185. A bill to amend the Head Start Act to authorize 
     block grants to States for prekindergarten education, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
     and Pensions.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Ms. Warren, Mr. Whitehouse, 
             and Mr. Reed):
       S. 186. A bill to amend the Federal Power Act to provide 
     that any inacation by the Federal Energy Regulatory 
     Commission that allows a rate change to go into effect shall 
     be treated as an order by the Commission for purposes of 
     rehearing and court review; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. SCHUMER:
       S. 187. A bill for the relief of Alemseghed Mussie 
     Tesfamical; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Mr. Johnson, Mrs. 
             McCaskill, and Mrs. Fischer):
       S. 188. A bill to prohibit the use of Federal funds for the 
     costs of painting portraits of officers and employees of the 
     Federal Government; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.

[[Page S399]]

  

           By Mr. MORAN:
       S. 189. A bill to modify the boundary of the Fort Scott 
     National Historic Site in the State of Kansas, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Ms. Cantwell):
       S. 190. A bill to provide for consideration of the 
     extension under the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 
     nonapplication of No-Load Mode energy efficiency standards to 
     certain security or life safety alarms or surveillance 
     systems, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Ms. Collins, Mrs. Capito, 
             and Mr. Isakson):
       S. 191. A bill to improve patient choice by allowing States 
     to adopt market-based alternatives to the Affordable Care Act 
     that increase access to affordable health insurance and 
     reduce costs while ensuring important consumer protections 
     and improving patient care; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr. Merkley):
       S. 192. A bill to withdraw certain land located in Curry 
     County and Josephine County, Oregon, from all forms of entry, 
     appropriation, or disposal under the public land laws, 
     location, entry, and patent under the mining laws, and 
     operation under the mineral leasing and geothermal leasing 
     laws, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr. Coons):
       S. 193. A bill to facilitate nationwide availability of 
     volunteer income tax assistance for low-income and 
     underserved populations, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Mr. Brown, and Mr. 
             Franken):
       S. 194. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     establish a public health insurance option, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.

                          ____________________



