

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 40 (Wednesday, March 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 8, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1689-S1690]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. HELLER (for himself and Mr. Tester):
       S. 563. A bill to amend the Flood Disaster Protection Act 
     of 1973 to require that certain buildings and personal 
     property be covered by flood insurance, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Mr. Lee):
       S. 564. A bill to repeal debt collection amendments made by 
     the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mrs. FISCHER (for herself, Mr. Gardner, Mr. 
             Grassley, and Mr. Crapo):
       S. 565. A bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to 
     provide for transparency of payments made from the Judgment 
     Fund; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself and Mrs. Murray):
       S. 566. A bill to withdraw certain land in Okanogan County, 
     Washington, to protect the land, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. HEITKAMP:
       S. 567. A bill to amend the Home Owners' Loan Act to allow 
     Federal savings associations to elect to operate as national 
     banks, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, 
     Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Ms. Collins, Mr. Nelson, and 
             Mrs. Capito):
       S. 568. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to count a period of receipt of outpatient observation 
     services in a hospital toward satisfying the 3-day inpatient 
     hospital requirement for coverage of skilled nursing facility 
     services under Medicare; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself, Mr. Burr, Mr. Wyden, Mrs. 
             Feinstein, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Tester, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. 
             Heinrich, Mr. Manchin, Mr. Franken, Mr. Markey, Ms. 
             Hirono, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Schatz, Ms. Klobuchar, Ms. 
             Baldwin, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Casey, Mrs. 
             Gillibrand, Mrs. Shaheen, and Mr. Coons):
       S. 569. A bill to amend title 54, United States Code, to 
     provide consistent and reliable authority for, and for the 
     funding of, the Land and Water Conservation Fund to maximize 
     the effectiveness of the Fund for future generations, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. THUNE (for himself and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 570. A bill to improve the National Oceanic and 
     Atmospheric Administration's weather research through a 
     focused program of investment on affordable and attainable 
     advances in observational, computing, and modeling 
     capabilities to support substantial improvement in weather 
     forecasting and prediction of high impact weather events, to 
     expand commercial opportunities for the provision of weather 
     data, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. PERDUE (for himself and Mr. Isakson):
       S. 571. A bill to authorize the sale of certain National 
     Forest System land in the State of Georgia; to the Committee 
     on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. BURR (for himself, Ms. Cantwell, and Mr. 
             Tillis):
       S. 572. A bill to require the Secretary of Commerce to 
     study the coverage gaps of the Next Generation Weather Radar 
     of the National Weather Service and to develop a plan for 
     improving radar coverage and hazardous weather detection and 
     forecasting, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr. Graham, Mr. Cornyn, Ms. 
             Stabenow, Mr. Cochran, Mr. Casey, Mr. Blunt, Ms. 
             Baldwin, Mrs. McCaskill, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Warner, Mr. 
             Rubio, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Hatch, Mrs. 
             Gillibrand, Ms. Collins, Ms. Harris, Mr. Nelson, Mr. 
             Kaine, and Mr. Cassidy):
       S. 573. A bill to establish the National Criminal Justice 
     Commission; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr. Merkley, Mrs. 
             Feinstein, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Franken, Mr. 
             Sanders, Mr. Van Hollen, and Mr. Brown):
       S. 574. A bill to restrict the use of funds for the long-
     range standoff weapon until the Secretary of Defense 
     completes a Nuclear Posture Review that includes an 
     assessment of the capabilities and effects of the use of the 
     long-range standoff weapon, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mr. Lee):
       S. 575. A bill to amend the Fair Debt Collection Practices 
     Act to restrict the debt collection practices of certain debt 
     collectors; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. 
             Grassley, and Ms. Baldwin):
       S. 576. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     extend certain protections against prohibited personnel 
     practices, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself and Mr. Risch):
       S. 577. A bill to require each agency, in providing notice 
     of a rule making, to include a link to a 100 word plain 
     language summary of the proposed rule; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. LANKFORD:
       S. 578. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     provide requirements for agency decision making based on 
     science; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself and Ms. Heitkamp):
       S. 579. A bill to require agencies to publish an advance 
     notice of proposed rule making for major rules; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. LANKFORD:
       S. 580. A bill to establish agency procedures for the 
     issuance of guidance documents, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Mrs. Capito, Ms. 
             Klobuchar, and Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 581. A bill to include information concerning a 
     patient's opioid addiction in certain medical records; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself, Mrs. McCaskill, and Mr. 
             Grassley):
       S. 582. A bill to reauthorize the Office of Special 
     Counsel, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. 
             Grassley, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Tillis, Mrs. Feinstein, 
             Mr. Hatch, Mr. Heller, and Mr. Cruz):
       S. 583. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
     Streets Act of 1968 to authorize COPS grantees to use grant 
     funds to

[[Page S1690]]

     hire veterans as career law enforcement officers, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself, Mr. Risch, and Mr. 
             Grassley):
       S. 584. A bill to amend chapter 6 of title 5, United States 
     Code (commonly known as the Regulatory Flexibility Act), to 
     ensure complete analysis of potential impacts on small 
     entities of rules, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself and Mrs. Ernst):
       S. 585. A bill to provide greater whistleblower protections 
     for Federal employees, increased awareness of Federal 
     whistleblower protections, and increased accountability and 
     required discipline for Federal supervisors who retaliate 
     against whistleblowers, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself, Mr. Perdue, and Mr. 
             Leahy):
       S.J. Res. 35. A joint resolution providing for the 
     appointment of Michael Govan as a citizen regent of the Board 
     of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution; to the Committee 
     on Rules and Administration.
           By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself, Mr. Perdue, and Mr. 
             Leahy):
       S.J. Res. 36. A joint resolution providing for the 
     appointment of Roger W. Ferguson as a citizen regent of the 
     Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution; to the 
     Committee on Rules and Administration.

                          ____________________



