

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H1249]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          A CENTURY OF SUCCESS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Minnesota (Mr. Emmer) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate Mackenthun's Fine 
Foods in Waconia, Minnesota, for 100 years of business success.
  At the beginning of the 20th century, August Mackenthun began a 
family tradition of making homemade sausage. This tradition was 
commercialized in 1917 when his son, Arthur, bought a sausage maker 
from Germany and opened Mackenthun's Meat Market in Waconia.
  What began as a modest business quickly transformed into a booming 
success as Mackenthun's developed a reputation for producing quality 
meats.
  Today, the business is run by Kim and Laurie Mackenthun and their 
family. While it is now a full-service supermarket, they have 
maintained the family tradition by offering their signature homemade 
sausage in the meat department.
  Congratulations to the entire Mackenthun family for their 100-year 
commitment to the family business, for upholding their longstanding 
tradition, and for exemplifying the American Dream.
  We wish you another century of success.


                             A Legend Lost

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the life and career 
of a legendary Minnesotan who passed away just last week. Ray 
Christensen was a renowned sportscaster in the North Star State and 
best known for his radio play-by-play for the Minnesota Golden Gophers.
  A native-born Minnesotan, Ray grew up in Minneapolis and bravely 
served our country in World War II. After returning from the war, Ray 
attended the University of Minnesota where he lettered in baseball.
  Upon graduation, Ray began his career announcing Gopher football 
games for WCCO in 1951 and basketball games in 1956. Ray worked for 
WCCO as a sportscaster until 2001 and was inducted into the Minnesota 
Broadcast Hall of Fame in 2002.
  Ray was the voice that we all grew up with. His voice was the one 
that we listened to every game day, and Minnesota athletics will 
certainly not be the same without him. I speak for all Minnesotans when 
I say that he will truly be missed.


                         A Top Minnesota School

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate Delano Elementary 
School in my district for being recognized as a Reward School for the 
fourth time in the past 5 years.
  In order to be categorized as a Reward School, the school must be in 
the top 15 percent of the highest performing schools in the State. 
Delano Elementary School's updated curriculum, improved physical 
education program, and new music classes are the best.

                              {time}  1015

  A good education opens all of life's doors, and I would like to thank 
Delano Elementary School for giving Minnesota students the key. Your 
dedication to our children deserves recognition, and I am proud to 
congratulate your work here today.

                          ____________________



