

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 44 (Tuesday, March 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 44 (Tuesday, March 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1805-S1806]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Ms. Stabenow, and Mrs. 
             Ernst):
       S. 616. A bill to amend section 721 of the Defense 
     Production Act of 1950 to include the Secretary of 
     Agriculture and the Secretary of Health and Human Services as 
     members of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United 
     States and to require the Committee to consider the security 
     of the food and agriculture systems of the United States as a 
     factor to be considered when determining to take action with 
     respect to foreign investment, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. MURPHY:
       S. 617. A bill to amend the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act to 
     designate certain segments of the Farmington River and Salmon 
     Brook in the State of Connecticut as components of the 
     National Wild and Scenic Rivers System, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself, Mr. Lankford, Mr. Rounds, 
             Mr. Daines, Mr. Cruz, and Mr. Cornyn):
       S. 618. A bill to amend chapter 44 of title 18, United 
     States Code, to more comprehensively address the interstate 
     transportation of firearms or ammunition; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself and Mr. Wicker):
       S. 619. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     provide for the participation of physical therapists in the 
     National Health Service Corps Loan Repayment Program, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
     and Pensions.
           By Mr. FRANKEN (for himself and Ms. Duckworth):
       S. 620. A bill to amend the Workforce Innovation and 
     Opportunity Act to support community college and industry 
     partnerships, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. TESTER:
       S. 621. A bill to establish an advisory committee to issue 
     nonbinding governmentwide guidelines on making public 
     information available on the Internet, to require publicly 
     available Government information held by the executive branch 
     to be made available on the Internet, to express the sense of 
     Congress that publicly available information held by the 
     legislative and judicial branches should be available on the 
     Internet, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself, Mr. Risch, and Mr. Perdue):
       S. 622. A bill to preserve open competition and Federal 
     Government neutrality towards the labor relations of Federal 
     Government contractors on Federal and federally funded 
     construction projects; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
     and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr. Durbin):
       S. 623. A bill to enhance the transparency and accelerate 
     the impact of assistance provided under the Foreign 
     Assistance Act of 1961 to promote quality basic education in 
     developing countries, to better enable such countries to 
     achieve universal access to quality basic education and 
     improved learning outcomes, to eliminate duplication and 
     waste, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations.
           By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself and Mrs. Fischer):
       S. 624. A bill to allow servicemembers to terminate their 
     cable, satellite television, and Internet access service 
     contracts while deployed; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Mr. Young):
       S. 625. A bill to preserve the integrity of American 
     elections by providing the Attorney General with the 
     investigative tools to identify and prosecute foreign agents 
     who seek to circumvent Federal registration requirements and 
     unlawfully influence the political process; to the Committee 
     on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Mr. Enzi, Mr. Heller, Mr. 
             Isakson, Mr. Barrasso, Mr. Hoeven, Ms. Collins, Mr. 
             Blunt, Mr. Boozman, and Mr. Cochran):
       S. 626. A bill to require Senate confirmation of the 
     Inspector General of the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
     Protection, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Ms. CANTWELL:
       S. 627. A bill to establish the Maritime Washington 
     Heritage Area in the State of Washington, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mr. Portman, Ms. Baldwin, 
             and Mr. Young):
       S. 628. A bill to amend the Carl D. Perkins Career and 
     Technical Education Act of 2006 to raise the quality of 
     career and technical education programs and to allow local 
     eligible recipients to use funding to establish high-quality 
     career academies; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself and Ms. Collins):
       S. 629. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drugs, and 
     Cosmetic Act to ensure the safety and effectiveness of 
     medically important antimicrobials approved for use in the 
     prevention, control, and treatment of animal diseases, in 
     order to minimize the development of antibiotic-resistant 
     bacteria; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.

[[Page S1806]]

  

                          ____________________



