

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 39 (Tuesday, March 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 39 (Tuesday, March 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1639-S1641]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 14

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the names of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr) and the Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. Capito) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 14, a bill to provide that Members of 
Congress may not receive pay after October 1 of any fiscal year in 
which Congress has not approved a concurrent resolution on the budget 
and passed the regular appropriations bills.


                                 S. 58

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the names of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt), the Senator from Alaska (Ms. Murkowski) and the Senator 
from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) were added as cosponsors of S. 58, a bill 
to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on 
high cost employer-sponsored health coverage.

[[Page S1640]]

  



                                 S. 92

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 92, a bill to 
amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to allow for the 
personal importation of safe and affordable drugs from approved 
pharmacies in Canada.


                                 S. 96

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 96, a bill to amend 
the Communications Act of 1934 to ensure the integrity of voice 
communications and to prevent unjust or unreasonable discrimination 
among areas of the United States in the delivery of such 
communications.


                                 S. 104

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 104, a bill to 
provide for the vacating of certain convictions and expungement of 
certain arrests of victims of human trafficking.


                                 S. 170

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 170, a bill to provide for 
nonpreemption of measures by State and local governments to divest from 
entities that engage in commerce-related or investment-related boycott, 
divestment, or sanctions activities targeting Israel, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 203

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 203, a bill to reaffirm 
that the Environmental Protection Agency may not regulate vehicles used 
solely for competition, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 241

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 241, a bill to 
prohibit Federal funding of Planned Parenthood Federation of America.


                                 S. 252

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 252, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to require drug 
manufacturers to provide drug rebates for drugs dispensed to low-income 
individuals under the Medicare prescription drug benefit program.


                                 S. 253

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 253, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to repeal the Medicare outpatient rehabilitation therapy 
caps.


                                 S. 260

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 260, a bill to repeal the 
provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act providing 
for the Independent Payment Advisory Board.


                                 S. 272

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 272, a bill to enhance 
the security operations of the Transportation Security Administration 
and the stability of the transportation security workforce by applying 
a unified personnel system under title 5, United States Code, to 
employees of the Transportation Security Administration who are 
responsible for screening passengers and property, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 301

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 301, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to prohibit governmental 
discrimination against providers of health services that are not 
involved in abortion.


                                 S. 303

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 303, a bill 
to discontinue a Federal program that authorizes State and local law 
enforcement officers to investigate, apprehend, and detain aliens in 
accordance with a written agreement with the Director of U.S. 
Immigration and Customs Enforcement and to clarify that immigration 
enforcement is solely a function of the Federal Government.


                                 S. 315

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Mr. Johnson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 315, a bill to 
direct the Secretary of the Army to place in Arlington National 
Cemetery a monument honoring the helicopter pilots and crewmembers who 
were killed while serving on active duty in the Armed Forces during the 
Vietnam era, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) was added as a cosponsor of S. 324, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the provision of adult 
day health care services for veterans.


                                 S. 333

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 333, a bill to 
limit donations made pursuant to settlement agreements to which the 
United States is a party, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 339

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 339, a bill to amend 
title 10, United States Code, to repeal the requirement for reduction 
of survivor annuities under the Survivor Benefit Plan by veterans' 
dependency and indemnity compensation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 370

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Florida (Mr. 
Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 370, a bill to eliminate the 
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection by repealing title X of the 
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, commonly 
known as the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010.


                                 S. 394

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) was added as a cosponsor of S. 394, a bill to amend chapter 
44 of title 18, United States Code, to provide that a member of the 
Armed Forces and the spouse of that member shall have the same rights 
regarding the receipt of firearms at the location of any duty station 
of the member.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the names of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven), the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Risch), the Senator 
from Delaware (Mr. Coons), the Senator from Alaska (Mr. Sullivan), the 
Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy) and the Senator from Minnesota (Mr. 
Franken) were added as cosponsors of S. 407, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the railroad track 
maintenance credit.


                                 S. 431

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 431, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to expand the use of telehealth for 
individuals with stroke.


                                 S. 438

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 438, a bill to encourage 
effective, voluntary investments to recruit, employ, and retain men and 
women who have served in the United States military with annual Federal 
awards to employers recognizing such efforts, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 482

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 482, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to treat certain amounts paid for 
physical activity, fitness, and exercise as amounts paid for medical 
care.


                                 S. 487

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 487, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for an exclusion for 
assistance provided to participants in certain veterinary student loan 
repayment or forgiveness programs.

[[Page S1641]]

  



                                 S. 489

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S. 489, a bill to amend 
the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 with respect to participant votes on the 
suspension of benefits under multiemployer plans in critical and 
declining status.


                                 S. 505

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 505, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for an energy 
equivalent of a gallon of diesel in the case of liquefied natural gas 
for purposes of the Inland Waterways Trust Fund financing rate.


                                 S. 512

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 512, a bill to modernize 
the regulation of nuclear energy.


                                 S. 518

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) was added as a cosponsor of S. 518, a bill to amend the 
Federal Water Pollution Control Act to provide for technical assistance 
for small treatment works.


                              S.J. RES. 1

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the names of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Crapo), the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson), the Senator from 
Montana (Mr. Daines), the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey), the 
Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth), the Senator from West Virginia 
(Mr. Manchin) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) were added 
as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 1, a joint resolution approving the location 
of a memorial to commemorate and honor the members of the Armed Forces 
who served on active duty in support of Operation Desert Storm or 
Operation Desert Shield.


                              S.J. RES. 27

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the names of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts), the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy), the Senator 
from Missouri (Mr. Blunt), the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds), 
the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Tillis), the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Risch), the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Strange), the Senator from 
Arizona (Mr. Flake) and the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Young) were added 
as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 27, a joint resolution disapproving the rule 
submitted by the Department of Labor relating to ``Clarification of 
Employer's Continuing Obligation to Make and Maintain an Accurate 
Record of Each Recordable Injury and Illness''.


                              S.J. RES. 28

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the names of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito), the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) and 
the Senator from South Carolina (Mr. Scott) were added as cosponsors of 
S.J. Res. 28, a joint resolution providing for congressional 
disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule 
submitted by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency 
relating to accidental release prevention requirements of risk 
management programs under the Clean Air Act.


                               S. RES. 23

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. McCain) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 23, a resolution 
establishing the Select Committee on Cybersecurity.

                          ____________________



