

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 14 (Friday, January 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 14 (Friday, January 27, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H701-H702]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. CUMMINGS (for himself, Mr. Chaffetz, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Sensenbrenner, and Ms. Jackson Lee):
       H.R. 702. A bill to amend the Notification and Federal 
     Employee Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 to 
     strengthen Federal antidiscrimination laws enforced by the 
     Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and expand 
     accountability within the Federal government, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas (for herself, Mr. 
             Huizenga, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Posey, Mr. 
             Walz, Mr. Bridenstine, Mr. Foster, Mr. Takano, Mr. 
             Tonko, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Beyer, Mr. 
             Langevin, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Bonamici, 
             Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Kilmer, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Bilirakis, 
             Mr. Hollingsworth, Mr. Cooper, and Mr. Perlmutter):
       H.R. 703. A bill to establish the 50th Anniversary Apollo I 
     Memorial; to the Committee on Armed Services, and in addition 
     to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs, and Science, Space, 
     and Technology, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself, Mr. Stivers, Mrs. Carolyn 
             B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Delaney, 
             Mr. Paulsen, and Ms. Sinema):
       H.R. 704. A bill to amend the Federal Home Loan Bank Act to 
     expand the purposes of advances and collateral available to 
     community development financial institutions; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. FLORES (for himself, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Guthrie, 
             and Mr. Collins of New York):
       H.R. 705. A bill to amend titles XI and XIX of the Social 
     Security Act to promote program integrity with respect to the 
     enrollment of certain immigrants in State plans under 
     Medicaid, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN:
       H.R. 706. A bill to amend title I of the Patient Protection 
     and Affordable Care Act to require verification for 
     eligibility for enrollment during special enrollment periods 
     in PPACA insurance plans, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN:
       H.R. 707. A bill to amend the Social Security Act to 
     improve choices available to Medicare eligible seniors by 
     permitting them to elect (instead of regular Medicare 
     benefits) to receive a voucher for a health savings account, 
     for premiums for a high deductible health insurance plan, or 
     both and by suspending Medicare late enrollment penalties 
     between ages 65 and 70; to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BUCSHON:
       H.R. 708. A bill to amend title XXVII of the Public Health 
     Service Act to change the permissible age variation in health 
     insurance premium rates; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. CAPUANO:
       H.R. 709. A bill to provide for notification to consumers 
     before a video service collects visual or auditory 
     information from the viewing area and to provide consumers 
     with choices that do not involve the collection of such 
     information, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. FLORES:
       H.R. 710. A bill to amend the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act to better align the grace period required 
     for non-payment of premiums before discontinuing coverage 
     under qualified health plans with such grace periods provided 
     for under State law; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, 
             and Ms. Jackson Lee):

[[Page H702]]

  

       H.R. 711. A bill to prohibit States from carrying out more 
     than one Congressional redistricting after a decennial census 
     and apportionment, to require States to conduct such 
     redistricting through independent commissions, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. COOPER (for himself, Mr. Peterson, Ms. Sinema, 
             Mr. Costa, Mr. Schrader, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Mr. 
             Quigley, and Mr. O'Halleran):
       H.R. 712. A bill to prohibit States from carrying out more 
     than one Congressional redistricting after a decennial census 
     and apportionment, to require States to conduct such 
     redistricting through independent commissions, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. COOPER (for himself, Mr. Peterson, Ms. Sinema, 
             Mr. Costa, Mr. Schrader, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, and 
             Mr. O'Halleran):
       H.R. 713. A bill to require States to carry out 
     Congressional redistricting in accordance with a process 
     under which members of the public are informed of 
     redistricting proposals and have the opportunity to 
     participate in the development of such proposals prior to 
     their adoption, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH:
       H.R. 714. A bill to provide for the legitimate use of 
     medicinal marihuana in accordance with the laws of the 
     various States; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH (for himself and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 715. A bill to provide for the rescheduling of 
     marihuana, the medical use of marihuana in accordance with 
     State law, and the exclusion of cannabidiol from the 
     definition of marihuana, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. MESSER:
       H.R. 716. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to encourage the use of 529 plans and Coverdell education 
     savings accounts, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee on Education 
     and the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. OLSON (for himself, Mr. Burgess, Mr. Gohmert, 
             and Mr. Babin):
       H.R. 717. A bill to amend the Endangered Species Act of 
     1973 to require review of the economic cost of adding a 
     species to the list of endangered species or threatened 
     species, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. TIBERI (for himself, Mr. Wenstrup, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Latta, 
             Mr. Renacci, Mr. Turner, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. 
             Stivers, and Mr. Chabot):
       H.R. 718. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     prohibit the unlawful disposal of fetal remains, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. WALKER (for himself, Mr. Duncan of South 
             Carolina, Mr. Brat, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. Budd, Mr. 
             Hudson, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Buck, Mr. Grothman, Mr. 
             Palmer, and Mr. Sensenbrenner):
       H.R. 719. A bill to allow a State to submit a declaration 
     of intent to the Secretary of Education to combine certain 
     funds to improve the academic achievement of students; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska (for himself and Mr. Pearce):
       H.J. Res. 34. A joint resolution disapproving the rule 
     submitted by the Department of the Interior regarding 
     requirements for exploratory drilling on the Arctic Outer 
     Continental Shelf; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.J. Res. 35. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the final rule of the Department of the 
     Interior relating to ``Non-Subsistence Take of Wildlife, and 
     Public Participation and Closure Procedures, on National 
     Wildlife Refuges in Alaska``; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself, Mr. Graves of Missouri, 
             and Ms. Roybal-Allard):
       H. Res. 64. A resolution recognizing the roles and 
     contributions of America's Certified Registered Nurse 
     Anesthetists (CRNAs) and their role in providing quality 
     healthcare for the public; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. CAPUANO:
       H. Res. 65. A resolution urging the President to seek an 
     independent investigation into the death of Tibetan Buddhist 
     leader and social activist Tenzin Delek Rinpoche and to 
     publicly call for an end to the repressive policies used by 
     the People's Republic of China in Tibet; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mrs. DAVIS of California (for herself, Mr. Renacci, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Bass, Mr. 
             Schiff, Ms. McCollum, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Ms. 
             Adams, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Kilmer, and Mr. Grijalva):
       H. Res. 66. A resolution recognizing January 2017 as 
     ``National Mentoring Month'', and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Ms. Meng, Mrs. Lawrence, and 
             Mr. Langevin):
       H. Res. 67. A resolution expressing support for designation 
     of November 2017, as ``National Bladder Health Month''; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. HASTINGS (for himself and Mr. Woodall):
       H. Res. 68. A resolution condemning Palestinian incitement 
     and reaffirming the special bond between Israel and the 
     United States; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



