

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S272-S273]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         THE REPEAL RESOLUTION

  Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, the repeal resolution we have been debating 
in the Senate this week will complete the firststep toward reducing the 
Federal Government's role that has prevented Americans from pursuing 
affordable and accessible healthcare that meets their needs without 
emptying their wallets. After we complete our repeal work, the Senate 
can then vigorouslypursue putting the Nation on a more responsible and 
sustainable fiscal path and address government's out-of-control 
spending anda mammoth national debt when we begin our work on the 
fiscal year 2018 budget.
  I thank my colleagues for their considerationand cooperation for 
bringing us to this point, and I thank Majority Leader Mitch McConnell 
for his leadership in pushingthe Senate to take the first steps to 
repair the Nation's broken health care system and to remove Washington 
from the equationin order to put control of health care back where it 
belongs: with the patients and their families and their doctors.
  Thiscommitment to an open, honest, and transparent legislative 
process is crucial to helping Congress restore the trust of theAmerican 
people.
  Thanks, as well, are due to many Members on this side who came and 
spoke on the resolution's behalf, whoworked with us and each other to 
move through the resolution, the debate, the amendments, the votes, the 
whole process.
  Ihave enjoyed my partnership with Senator Sanders as we took on new 
roles as the top Republican and Democrat on the SenateBudget Committee 
last Congress. We have known each other a long time, and we have served 
on some of the same Senate committees.I believe he and my colleagues 
across the aisle share the same goal of establishing a robust and 
affordable health care systemfor hard-working families. I truly hope 
that they will work with us to find common ground that delivers more 
choices and lowercosts in the weeks and months ahead.
  Also, I would like to focus for a moment on some of the staff who 
helped lead us here.
  I thank the Republican staff of the Senate Budget Committee, 
including my acting staff director, DanKowalski; the director of the 
budget review and acting deputy staff director, Matt Giroux; the chief 
counsel, George Everly;senior budget analysts Peter Warren and Steve 
Robinson; budget analysts Greg D'Angelo, Tom Bork, Becky Cole, David 
Ditch andSusan Eckerly; and assistant counsels Clint Brown and Thomas 
Fuller; outreach director Jim Neill; editor Elizabeth Keys; 
policyassistant Kelsie Wendelberger; and communications director Joe 
Brenckle.
  As well, thanks are due to my personal officestaff, especially my 
chief of staff, Tara Shaw; my legislative director, Landon Stropko; my 
health care policy staff, ElizabethSchwartz, Alec Hinojosa, and Chris 
Lydon; as well as the entire Wyoming team.
  I want to pay specific attention to thankingTara Shaw, who is my 
chief

[[Page S273]]

of staff. She has been filling a dual role for some time. She was my 
legislative director. Wehave filled that position now. But she has been 
acting as the assistant here on the floor as well and done a tremendous 
job ofmanipulating and coordinating both centers of action.
  Now, we have also been supported by the great work of our 
leadership,floor, and cloakroom staff. I thank them for their continued 
good work and dedication to this institution and the country as awhole. 
In particular, I want to thank Sharon Soderstrom, Hazen Marshall, Jane 
Lee, and Scott Raab in the leader's office, andMonica Popp, John 
Caphuis, and Emily Kirlin in the whip's office, and very especially 
Laura Dove and Robert Duncan in thecloakroom.
  These folks, as well as my budget team, worked hours over the holiday 
break to ensure our success. Without alltheir work, we would not be 
here this evening standing on the verge of passing the Senate's repeal 
resolution that will set thestage for true legislative relief from 
ObamaCare that Americans have long demanded, while ensuring a stable 
transition in whichthose with insurance will not lose access to health 
care coverage.
  This will allow us to move step by step on a new set ofreforms, 
listening carefully to the advice of the millions of Americans who are 
affected, a step we left out when we did itpreviously. Or, as Senator 
Alexander of Tennessee, the chairman of the Senate Health, Education, 
Labor, and PensionsCommittee put it, the ObamaCare bridge is 
collapsing, and we are sending in a rescue team. Then we will build 
several newbridges to get better health care. Finally, when those 
bridges are finished, we will close the old bridge.
  After 5 days ofconsideration, many hours of debate, and numerous 
amendments reviewed and voted on, this part of the process can now 
beconcluded. With that, I ask for the continued support and discussion 
on this valuable issue. If people have ideas for what oughtto be 
included, I hope they will talk to us about them. I hope the American 
people will talk to us about the ideas they thinkneed to be included.
  There has been a lot of fearmongering, a lot of supposition about 
what will happen at the next stage.There were amendments that were put 
in about the next stage. Those, of course, wound up being nongermane. 
But we have our workcut out for us. We do have to come through now with 
a system that will solve the problems for the American people.
  Imentioned before that when we started the whole debate on ObamaCare, 
there were 30 million people uninsured. Today, there are 28million 
people uninsured. I think that the 30 million people was probably 
closer to 28 million at that time. One of thedifferences is some people 
who could not get insurance have insurance, and a bunch of people who 
had insurance can't affordtheir insurance, and a bunch of people who 
have insurance can't afford their insurance, as you heard through the 
debate.
  Wewant all the people who want insurance to be covered, and to be 
covered in such a way that they can actually get the treatment.If you 
have a $12,000 or $10,000 or $6,000 deductible, that may not happen.
  But I thank all of the people who have worked toget us to this point. 
Our work is now cut out for us even more so.
  I know that we can have a spirit of cooperation and workthrough this, 
or we can use the reconciliation process and do it with 51 votes. But 
it is far better if we can find commonground and common solutions and 
get the work done.

                          ____________________



