

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 15 (Monday, January 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 15 (Monday, January 30, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H735-H738]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     PUBLICATION OF COMMITTEE RULES


RULES OF THE COMMITTEE ON OVERSIGHT AND GOVERNMENT REFORM FOR THE 115th 
                                CONGRESS

         House of Representatives, Committee on Oversight and 
           Government Reform,
                                 Washington, DC, January 30, 2017.
     Hon. Paul Ryan,
     Speaker of the House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Speaker: Pursuant to clause 2(a)(2) of House Rule 
     XI, the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform adopted 
     its rules for the 115th Congress on January 24, 2017, and I 
     submit them now for publication in the Congressional Record.
           Sincerely,
                                                   Jason Chaffetz,
                                                         Chairman.


                            Rule 1--General

       (a) Rules of the House. The Rules of the House are the 
     rules of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform 
     (``the Committee'') and its subcommittees so far as 
     applicable.
       (b) Application of the Rules. Except where the terms ``the 
     Committee'' and ``subcommittee'' are specifically referred 
     to, the following rules shall apply to the Committee and its 
     subcommittees as well as to their respective chairs, ranking 
     minority members, members, and staff.


                            Rule 2--Meetings

       (a) Regular Meetings. The regular meetings of the Committee 
     shall be held on the second Thursday of each month at 10 
     a.m., when the House is in session. The Chair of the 
     Committee is authorized to dispense with a regular meeting or 
     to change the date thereof when circumstances warrant.
       (b) Additional and Special Meetings. The Chair of the 
     Committee may call and convene additional meetings, when 
     circumstances warrant. A special meeting of the Committee may 
     be requested by members of the Committee pursuant to the 
     provisions of House Rule XI, clause 2(c)(2).
       (c) Subcommittee Meetings. Each subcommittee shall meet at 
     the call of its chair, subject to Rule 7.
       (d) Presiding Member. The chair of the Committee or a 
     subcommittee shall preside over each meeting and hearing 
     thereof (``the presiding member''). If the chair of the 
     Committee or a subcommittee is not present during a meeting 
     or hearing thereof, the Vice Chair of the Committee or 
     subcommittee, designated pursuant to House Rule XI, clause 
     2(d), shall serve as the presiding member during the absence 
     of the chair. If the chair and vice chair of the Committee or 
     a subcommittee are not present during a meeting or hearing 
     thereof, the ranking member of the majority party on the 
     Committee or subcommittee who is present shall serve as the 
     presiding member during the absence of the chair and vice 
     chair.
       (e) Notice. The chair of the Committee or a subcommittee 
     shall announce the date, place, and subject matter of a 
     meeting or hearing pursuant to House Rule XI, clause 
     2(g)(3)(A).
       (f) Agenda. Every member of the Committee, unless prevented 
     by unusual circumstances, shall be provided with a memorandum 
     at least 72 hours before each meeting or hearing explaining: 
     (1) the purpose of the meeting or hearing; and (2) the names, 
     titles, background and reasons for appearance of any 
     witnesses. The ranking minority member shall be responsible 
     for providing the same information on witnesses whom the 
     minority may request.
       (g) Availability of Text. To the maximum extent 
     practicable, amendments to a measure or matter shall be 
     submitted in writing or electronically to the designee of the 
     chair and ranking minority member of the Committee or a 
     subcommittee at least 24 hours prior to its consideration of 
     the measure or matter. The chair may exercise discretion to 
     give priority to amendments submitted in advance.


                            Rule 3--Quorums

       (a) Generally. A majority of the members of the Committee 
     or a subcommittee shall form a quorum for the Committee or 
     subcommittee, respectively, except that two members shall 
     constitute a quorum for taking testimony and receiving 
     evidence, and one third of the members shall form a quorum 
     for taking any action other than for which the presence of a 
     majority of the Committee or subcommittee is otherwise 
     required.
       (b) Subcommittee Field Hearings. The Chair of the Committee 
     may, at the request of a subcommittee chair, make a temporary 
     assignment of any member of the Committee

[[Page H736]]

     to such subcommittee for the purpose of constituting a quorum 
     at and participating in any public hearing by such 
     subcommittee to be held outside of Washington, DC. A member 
     appointed to such temporary positions shall not be a voting 
     member. The Chair of the Committee shall give reasonable 
     notice of such temporary assignment to the ranking minority 
     member of the Committee and of the respective subcommittee.


                       Rule 4--Committee Reports

       (a) Bills and Resolutions. Each bill or resolution approved 
     by the Committee shall be reported by the Chair of the 
     Committee pursuant to House Rule XIII, clauses 2-4.
       (b) Approval of Investigative and Oversight Reports. Only 
     those investigative or oversight reports approved by a 
     majority vote of the Committee at a meeting at which a quorum 
     is present may be ordered printed, unless otherwise required 
     by the Rules of the House of Representatives.
       (c) Notice of Investigative and Oversight Reports. A 
     proposed investigative or oversight report shall not be 
     considered in the Committee unless the proposed report has 
     been available to the members of the Committee for at least 
     three calendar days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal 
     holidays, unless the House is in session on such days) before 
     consideration of such proposed report in the Committee. If a 
     hearing has been held on the matter reported upon, every 
     reasonable effort shall be made to have such hearing printed 
     and available to the members of the Committee before the 
     consideration of the proposed report in the Committee.
       (d) Additional Views. If at the time of approval of a 
     report, a member of the Committee gives notice of intent to 
     file supplemental, minority, additional, or dissenting views 
     any member of the Committee shall be entitled to file such 
     views following House Rule XI, clause 2(1) and Rule XIII, 
     clause 3(a)(1).


                          Rule 5--Record Votes

       (a) Request for Record Vote. A record vote of the members 
     may be had upon the request of any member upon approval of a 
     one-fifth vote of the members present.
       (b) Postponement of a Record Vote. Pursuant to House Rule 
     XI, clause 2 (h)(4), the presiding member at a meeting is 
     authorized to postpone further proceedings when a record vote 
     is ordered on the question of approving a measure or matter 
     or on adopting an amendment and to resume proceedings on a 
     postponed question at any time after reasonable notice. When 
     proceedings resume on a postponed question, notwithstanding 
     any intervening order for the previous question, an 
     underlying proposition shall remain subject to further debate 
     or amendment to the same extent as when the question was 
     postponed. After consultation with the ranking minority 
     member, the chair shall take reasonable steps to notify 
     members on the resumption of proceedings on any postponed 
     record vote.


                    Rule 6--Subcommittees; Referrals

       (a)(1) There shall be six subcommittees of the Committee, 
     with appropriate party ratios, as follows:
       (A) Subcommittee on Government Operations, which shall have 
     legislative and oversight jurisdiction over government 
     management and accounting measures; the economy, efficiency, 
     and management of government operations and activities; 
     procurement; federal property; public information; federal 
     records; federal civil service; government reorganizations; 
     the U.S. Postal Service; the National Archives; the Census 
     Bureau; and the District of Columbia.
       (B) Subcommittee on Healthcare, Benefits, and 
     Administrative Rules, which shall have oversight jurisdiction 
     over health care policy, administration, and programs; 
     regulatory affairs; government-wide rules and regulations; 
     financial services; and the administration and solvency of 
     benefit and entitlement programs; and legislative 
     jurisdiction over regulatory affairs and federal paperwork 
     reduction.
       (C) Subcommittee on the Interior, Energy, and Environment, 
     which shall have oversight jurisdiction over energy policy, 
     public lands, environmental policy, fish and wildlife, 
     mining, energy development, pollution, and related 
     regulations.
       (D) Subcommittee on Information Technology, which shall 
     have oversight jurisdiction over information security, 
     including cybersecurity and federal information security; 
     information technology policy, management, and procurement; 
     emerging technologies; intellectual property; 
     telecommunications; and privacy.
       (E) Subcommittee on Intergovernmental Affairs, which shall 
     have legislative and oversight jurisdiction over the 
     relationship between the federal government and states and 
     municipalities, including unfunded mandates, federal 
     regulations, grants, and programs.
       (F) Subcommittee on National Security, which shall have 
     oversight jurisdiction over national security; homeland 
     security; foreign operations, including the relationships 
     between the United States and international organizations of 
     which the United States is a member; immigration; defense; 
     and criminal justice.
       (2) In addition, each subcommittee shall have specific 
     responsibility for such other measures or matters as the 
     Chair of the Committee refers to it.
       (3) Each subcommittee with legislative jurisdiction shall 
     review and study, on a continuing basis, the application, 
     administration, execution, and effectiveness of those laws, 
     or parts of laws, the subject matter of which is within its 
     general responsibility.
       (b) Referrals. Bills, resolutions, and other matters may be 
     expeditiously referred by the Chair of the Committee to 
     subcommittees, as appropriate in the determination of the 
     Chair of the Committee, for consideration or investigation in 
     accordance with subcommittees' jurisdictions. Bills, 
     resolutions, and other matters referred to subcommittees may 
     be re-referred or discharged by the Chair of the Committee 
     when, in the judgment of the Chair, the subcommittee is not 
     able to complete its work or cannot reach agreement therein.
       (c) Membership. The Chair of the Committee shall assign 
     members to the subcommittees and shall designate the chair 
     and vice-chair of each subcommittee. Minority party 
     assignments, including designation of the ranking minority 
     member of each subcommittee, shall be made only with the 
     concurrence of the Ranking Minority Member of the Committee.
       (d) Ex Officio Membership. The Chair of the Committee and 
     the Ranking Minority Member of the Committee shall be ex 
     officio members of all subcommittees. They are authorized to 
     vote on subcommittee matters; but, unless they are regular 
     members of the subcommittee, they shall not be counted in 
     determining a subcommittee quorum other than a quorum for 
     taking testimony.


           Rule 7--Subcommittee Hearing and Meeting Procedure

       (a) Generally. Each subcommittee is authorized to meet, 
     hold hearings, receive testimony, markup legislation, and 
     report to the Committee on any measure or matter referred to 
     it.
       (b) During Committee Meetings and Hearings. No subcommittee 
     may meet or hold a hearing at the same time as a meeting or 
     hearing of the Committee.
       (c) Scheduling. Each subcommittee chair shall set hearing 
     and meeting dates only with the approval of the Chair of the 
     Committee with a view toward assuring the availability of 
     meeting rooms and avoiding simultaneous scheduling of 
     meetings or hearings.


                             Rule 8--Staff

       (a) Employment Authority. Except as otherwise provided by 
     House Rule X, clauses 6, 7 and 9, the Chair of the Committee 
     shall have the authority to hire and discharge employees of 
     the professional and clerical staff of the Committee and 
     subcommittees.
       (b) Duties. Except as otherwise provided by House Rule X, 
     clauses 6, 7 and 9, the staff of the Committee and 
     subcommittees shall be subject to the direction of the Chair 
     of the Committee and shall perform such duties as the Chair 
     of the Committee may assign.


                            Rule 9--Hearings

       (a) Generally. Hearings shall be conducted according to the 
     procedures in House Rule XI, clause 2(k). All questions put 
     to witnesses before the Committee or a subcommittee shall be 
     relevant to the subject matter before the Committee or 
     subcommittee for consideration, and the presiding member 
     shall rule on the relevance of any question put to a witness.
       (b) Recognition and Order of Questioning. A member may 
     question witnesses only when recognized by the presiding 
     member for that purpose. In accordance with House Rule XI, 
     clause 2(j)(2), the five-minute rule shall apply during the 
     questioning of witnesses in a hearing. The presiding member 
     shall, so far as practicable, recognize alternately based on 
     seniority of those majority and minority members present at 
     the time the hearing was called to order and others based on 
     their arrival at the hearing. After that, additional time may 
     be extended at the direction of the presiding member.
       (c) Extended Questioning. The presiding member, or the 
     Committee or subcommittee by motion, may permit a specified 
     number of majority and minority members to question a witness 
     for a specified, total period that is equal for each side and 
     not longer than thirty minutes for each side.
       (d) Staff Questioning. The presiding member, or the 
     Committee or subcommittee by motion, may permit Committee or 
     subcommittee staff of the majority and minority to question a 
     witness for a specified, total period that is equal for each 
     side and not longer than thirty minutes for each side.
       (e) Time for Questioning. Nothing in paragraph (c) or (d) 
     affects the rights of a member (other than a member 
     designated under paragraph (c)) to question a witness for 5 
     minutes in accordance with paragraph (b). In any extended 
     questioning permitted under paragraph (c) or (d), the 
     presiding member shall determine how to allocate the time 
     permitted for extended questioning by majority members or 
     staff, and the ranking minority member shall determine how 
     to allocate the time permitted for extended questioning by 
     minority members or staff.
       (f) Witness Statements. Witnesses appearing before the 
     Committee or a subcommittee shall, so far as practicable, 
     submit written statements at least 24 hours before their 
     appearance.
       (g) Oaths. The presiding member may administer oaths to any 
     witness before the Committee or subcommittee. All witnesses 
     appearing in hearings may be administered the following oath 
     by the presiding member prior to receiving the testimony: 
     ``Do you solemnly swear or affirm that the testimony that you 
     are about to give is the truth, the whole truth, and nothing 
     but the truth, so help you God?''

[[Page H737]]

  



        rule 10--committee records, open meetings, transparency

       (a) Generally. The Committee and subcommittee staff shall 
     maintain in the Committee offices a complete record of 
     Committee and subcommittee actions from the current Congress 
     including a record of the roll call votes taken at business 
     meetings. The original records, or true copies thereof, as 
     appropriate, shall be available for public inspection 
     whenever the Committee offices are open for public business. 
     The staff shall assure that such original records are 
     preserved with no unauthorized alteration, additions, or 
     defacement.
       (b) Transcripts of Proceedings. A stenographic record of 
     all testimony shall be kept of public hearings and shall be 
     made available on such conditions as the Chair of the 
     Committee may prescribe.
       (c) Open Meetings. Meetings and hearings shall be open to 
     the public or closed in accordance with the Rules of the 
     House of Representatives.
       (d) Committee Website. The Chair of the Committee shall 
     maintain an official website on behalf of the Committee for 
     the purpose of furthering the Committee's legislative and 
     oversight responsibilities, including communicating 
     information about the Committee's activities to Committee 
     members and other members of the House. To the greatest 
     extent practicable, the Chair of the Committee shall ensure 
     that Committee records are made available on the Committee's 
     official website in appropriate formats.
       (e) Minority Website. The Ranking Minority Member of the 
     Committee is authorized to maintain an official website on 
     behalf of the minority members of the Committee for the same 
     purpose as in paragraph (d), including communicating 
     information about the activities of the minority to Committee 
     members and other members of the House.
       (f) Archived Records. The records of the Committee at the 
     National Archives and Records Administration shall be made 
     available for public use in accordance with rule VII of the 
     Rules of the House. The Chair shall notify the Ranking 
     Minority Member of any decision, pursuant to clause 3(b)(3) 
     or clause 4(b) of the rule, to withhold a record otherwise 
     available, and the matter shall be presented to the Committee 
     for a determination on written request of any member of the 
     Committee.


      rule 11--audio and visual coverage of committee proceedings

       (a) Generally. An open meeting or hearing may be covered, 
     in whole or in part, by television broadcast, radio 
     broadcast, internet broadcast, and still photography, unless 
     closed subject to the provisions of House Rules. Any such 
     coverage shall conform to the provisions of House Rule XI, 
     clause 4.
       (b) Committee Broadcast System. Use of the Committee 
     Broadcast System shall be fair and nonpartisan, and in 
     accordance with House Rule XI, clause 4(b), and all other 
     applicable rules of the House and the Committee. Members of 
     the Committee shall have prompt access to a copy of coverage 
     by the Committee Broadcast System, to the extent that such 
     coverage is maintained.
       (c) Other Coverage. Personnel providing coverage of an open 
     meeting or hearing of the Committee by internet broadcast, 
     other than through the Committee Broadcast System shall be 
     currently accredited to the Radio and Television 
     Correspondents' Galleries. If the Committee Broadcast System 
     is not available, the Chair of the Committee may, with the 
     concurrence of the Ranking Minority Member of the Committee, 
     direct staff to provide coverage in a manner that is fair and 
     nonpartisan and in accordance with House Rule XI, clause 4.


        rule 12--additional duties of the chair of the committee

       The Chair of the Committee shall:
       (a) Make available to other committees the findings and 
     recommendations resulting from the investigations of the 
     Committee, as required by House Rule X, clause 4(c)(2);
       (b) Direct such review and studies on--
       (1) the impact or probable impact of tax policies affecting 
     subjects within the Committee's jurisdiction, as required by 
     House Rule X, clause 2(c);
       (2) the operation of Government activities at all levels 
     with a view to determining their economy and efficiency, as 
     required by House Rule X, clause 3(i);
       (3) the effect of laws enacted to reorganize the 
     legislative and executive branches of the Government, as 
     required by House Rule X, clause 4(c)(1)(B); and
       (4) intergovernmental relationships between the United 
     States and the States and municipalities and between the 
     United States and international organizations of which the 
     United States is a member, as required by House Rule X, 
     clause 4(c)(1)(C);
       (c) Submit to the Committee on House Administration and the 
     Committee on Appropriations the Committee's authorization and 
     oversight plan as required by House Rule X, clause 2(d);
       (d) Report to the House by March 31 in the first session of 
     Congress, after consultation with the Speaker, the Majority 
     Leader, and the Minority Leader, the authorization and 
     oversight plans submitted by committees together with any 
     recommendations that the Committee or the House leadership 
     group described above may make to ensure the most effective 
     coordination of authorization and oversight pans and 
     otherwise achieve the objectives of House Rule X, clause 2;
       (e) Submit to the House such recommendations as the 
     Committee considers necessary or desirable in connection with 
     the reports of the Comptroller General, as required by House 
     Rule X, clause 4(c)(1)(A);
       (f) Submit to the Committee on the Budget views and 
     estimates required by House Rule X, clause 4(f), and to file 
     reports with the House as required by the Congressional 
     Budget Act;
       (g) Authorize and issue subpoenas as provided in House Rule 
     XI, clause 2(m), in the conduct of any investigation or 
     activity or series of investigations or activities within the 
     jurisdiction of the Committee;
       (h) Prepare, after consultation with the Ranking Minority 
     Member of the Committee, a budget for the Committee;
       (i) Make any necessary technical and conforming changes to 
     legislation reported by the Committee upon unanimous consent; 
     and
       (j) Offer motions under clause 1 of Rule XXII of the Rules 
     of the House (motion to request or agree to a conference) 
     whenever the Chair of the Committee considers it appropriate.


        rule 13--consideration of certain bills and resolutions

       (a) Commemorative Stamps. The determination of the subject 
     matter of commemorative stamps and new semi-postal issues is 
     properly for consideration by the Postmaster General and the 
     Committee will not give consideration to legislative 
     proposals specifying the subject matter of commemorative 
     stamps and new semi-postal issues. It is suggested that 
     recommendations for the subject matter of stamps be submitted 
     to the Postmaster General.
       (b) Postal Naming Bills. The consideration of bills 
     designating facilities of the United States Postal Service 
     shall be conducted so as to minimize the time spent on such 
     matters by the Committee and the House.
       (c) Resolutions. The Chair of the Committee shall not 
     request to have scheduled any resolution for consideration 
     under suspension of the Rules, which expresses 
     appreciation, commends, congratulates, celebrates, 
     recognizes the accomplishments of, or celebrates the 
     anniversary of, an entity, event, group, individual, 
     institution, team or government program; or acknowledges 
     or recognizes a period of time for such purposes.


                    rule 14--panels and task forces

       (a) Generally. The Chair of the Committee is authorized to 
     appoint panels or task forces to carry out the duties and 
     functions of the Committee.
       (b) Ex Officio Membership. The Chair and Ranking Minority 
     Member of the Committee may serve as ex-officio members of 
     each panel or task force established under this Rule.
       (c) Appointment of Leadership. The chair of any panel or 
     task force shall be appointed by the Chair of the Committee. 
     The Ranking Minority Member of the Committee shall select a 
     ranking minority member for each panel or task force.
       (d) Application of Rules. The House and Committee rules 
     applicable to subcommittee meetings, hearings, 
     recommendations, and reports shall apply to the meetings, 
     hearings, recommendations, and reports of panels and task 
     forces.
       (e) Termination. No panel or task force appointed under 
     this Rule shall continue in existence for more than six 
     months. A panel or task force appointed under this Rule may, 
     upon the expiration of six months, be reappointed by the 
     chair.


                     rule 15--deposition authority

       (a) Generally. The Chair of the Committee, upon 
     consultation with the Ranking Minority Member of the 
     Committee, may order the taking of depositions, under oath 
     and pursuant to notice or subpoena.
       (b) Notices. Notices for the taking of depositions shall 
     specify the date, time, and place of examination (if other 
     than within the Committee offices).
       (c) Oaths. Depositions shall be taken under oath 
     administered by a member or a person otherwise authorized to 
     administer oaths.
       (d) Consultation. Consultation with the Ranking Minority 
     Member of the Committee shall include three business days' 
     notice before any deposition is taken. All members shall also 
     receive three business days' notice that a deposition has 
     been scheduled.
       (e) Attendance. Witnesses may be accompanied at a 
     deposition by counsel to advise them of their rights. No one 
     may be present at depositions except members, Committee staff 
     designated by the Chair of the Committee or the Ranking 
     Minority Member of the Committee, an official reporter, the 
     witness, and the witness's counsel. Observers or counsel for 
     other persons, or for agencies under investigation, may not 
     attend.
       (f) Requirement of Member Attendance. At least one member 
     of the Committee shall be present at each deposition taken by 
     the Committee, unless--
       (1) the witness to be deposed agrees in writing to waive 
     this requirement; or
       (2) the Committee authorizes the taking of a specified 
     deposition pursuant to H. Res. 5 without the presence of a 
     member of the Committee during a specified period, provided 
     that the House is not in session on the day of the 
     deposition.
       (g) Who May Question. A deposition shall be conducted by 
     any member or staff attorney designated by the Chair of the 
     Committee or Ranking Minority Member of the Committee. When 
     depositions are conducted by Committee staff attorneys, there 
     shall be no more than two Committee staff attorneys permitted 
     to question a witness per round. One of the Committee staff 
     attorneys shall be designated by the Chair of the Committee

[[Page H738]]

     and the other by the Ranking Minority Member of the 
     Committee. Other Committee staff members designated by the 
     Chair of the Committee or Ranking Minority Member of the 
     Committee may attend, but may not pose questions to the 
     witness.
       (h) Order of Questions. Questions in the deposition shall 
     be propounded in rounds, alternating between the majority and 
     minority. A single round shall not exceed 60 minutes per 
     side, unless the members or staff attorneys conducting the 
     deposition agree to a different length of questioning. In 
     each round, a member or Committee staff attorney designated 
     by the Chair of the Committee shall ask questions first, and 
     the member or Committee staff attorney designated by the 
     Ranking Minority Member of the Committee shall ask questions 
     second.
       (i) Objections. Any objection made during a deposition must 
     be stated concisely and in a non-argumentative and non-
     suggestive manner. The witness may refuse to answer a 
     question only to preserve a privilege. When the witness has 
     objected and refused to answer a question to preserve a 
     privilege, the Chair of the Committee may rule on any such 
     objection after the deposition has adjourned. If the Chair of 
     the Committee overrules any such objection and thereby orders 
     a witness to answer any question to which a privilege 
     objection was lodged, such ruling shall be filed with the 
     clerk of the Committee and shall be provided to the members 
     and the witness no less than three days before the reconvened 
     deposition. If a member of the Committee appeals in writing 
     the ruling of the Chair, the appeal shall be preserved for 
     Committee consideration. A deponent who refuses to answer a 
     question after being directed by the Chair in writing to 
     answer may be subject to sanction, except that no sanctions 
     may be imposed if the ruling of the Chair is reversed by the 
     Committee on appeal.
       (j) Record of Testimony. Committee staff shall ensure that 
     the testimony is either transcribed or electronically 
     recorded or both. If a witness's testimony is transcribed, 
     the witness or the witness's counsel shall be afforded an 
     opportunity to review a copy. No later than five days 
     thereafter, the witness may submit suggested changes to the 
     Chair of the Committee. Committee staff may make any 
     typographical and technical changes. Substantive changes, 
     modifications, clarifications, or amendments to the 
     deposition transcript submitted by the witness must be 
     accompanied by a letter signed by the witness requesting the 
     changes and a statement of the witness's reasons for each 
     proposed change. Any substantive changes, modifications, 
     clarifications, or amendments shall be included as an 
     appendix to the transcript conditioned upon the witness 
     signing the transcript.
       (k) Transcription Requirements. The individual 
     administering the oath, if other than a member, shall certify 
     on the transcript that the witness was duly sworn. The 
     transcriber shall certify that the transcript is a true 
     record of the testimony, and the transcript shall be filed, 
     together with any electronic recording, with the clerk of the 
     Committee in Washington, D.C. Depositions shall be considered 
     to have been taken in Washington, D.C., as well as the 
     location actually taken once filed there with the clerk of 
     the Committee for the Committee's use. The Chair of the 
     Committee and the Ranking Minority Member of the Committee 
     shall be provided with a copy of the transcripts of the 
     deposition at the same time.
       (l) Release. The Chair of the Committee and Ranking 
     Minority Member of the Committee shall consult regarding the 
     release of depositions. If either objects in writing to a 
     proposed release of a deposition or a portion thereof, the 
     matter shall be promptly referred to the Committee for 
     resolution.
       (m) Provision of Rules to Witnesses. A witness shall not be 
     required to testify unless the witness has been provided with 
     a copy of the Committee's rules.


                       rule 16--witness procedure

       (a) Witness Disclosures. Witnesses appearing at a hearing 
     of the Committee or a subcommittee in a non-governmental 
     capacity shall include a curriculum vitae and a disclosure of 
     the amount and source (by agency and program) of each federal 
     grant (or subgrant thereof) or contract (or subcontract 
     thereof), as well as the amount and source of payments or 
     contracts originating from foreign governments, insofar as 
     they relate to the subject matter of the hearing, received 
     during the current calendar year or either of the two 
     previous calendar years, by the witness or by an entity 
     represented by the witness.
       (b) Representation by Counsel. When representing a witness 
     or entity before the Committee or a subcommittee in response 
     to a request or subpoena from the Committee, or in connection 
     with testimony before the Committee or a subcommittee, 
     counsel for the witness or entity must promptly submit to the 
     Committee a notice of appearance specifying the following: 
     (1) counsel's name, firm or organization, bar membership, and 
     contact information including email; and (2) each client or 
     entity represented by the counsel in connection with the 
     proceeding.

                          ____________________



