

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2359-S2360]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  NATIONAL CRIME VICTIMS' RIGHTS WEEK

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, millions of Americans and thousands of 
Iowans annually fall victim to senseless acts of crime. In their honor 
and in honor of the thousands of advocates, first responders, crisis 
hotline volunteers, and others who work tirelessly on their behalf, I 
introduced a resolution to commemorate National Crime Victims' Rights 
Week.
  I thank Senators Leahy, Crapo, and Feinstein for joining me as 
cosponsors of this important resolution. In 2017, National Crime 
Victims' Rights Week takes place from April 2 through April 8. We have 
commemorated the week every April since 1981.
  Here in Washington, DC, and across the Nation, activities are being 
organized to highlight and promote this year's theme: ``Strength. 
Resilience. Justice.'' The theme for 2017 recognizes the strength of 
individual victims. It highlights the resilience of survivors as well 
as the victim assistance organizations who support survivors in their 
efforts to heal. And it reflects the importance of securing justice for 
crime victims.
  During this week, we also highlight the contributions of the crisis 
hotline volunteers and staff, victims' rights attorneys, advocates, 
sexual assault nurse examiners, police officers, and other emergency 
responders who provide critical assistance to survivors of crime in 
communities across the United States. On Friday, several of these 
individuals will receive awards during a ceremony hosted by the Office 
for Victims of Crime at the U.S. Department of Justice. I extend my 
gratitude to those award recipients for their work to assist victims of 
crime.
  Many of us in this Chamber have championed landmark legislation to 
enhance the rights of crime victims. For example, I was an original 
cosponsor of the 1984 Victims of Crime Act,

[[Page S2360]]

which established the Crime Victims Compensation Fund. I also joined my 
colleagues in supporting the 1994 enactment of the Violence Against 
Women Act. This landmark legislation enhanced penalties for sex 
offenders and made hundreds of millions of dollars available for 
activities and programs to respond to the needs of domestic violence 
survivors.
  The Judiciary Committee, which I chair, has continued to make the 
protection of victims' rights a top priority. Two years ago, we 
approved the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act, which makes new 
resources available to help survivors of human trafficking. We also 
approved the Survivors' Bill of Rights, which establishes new rights 
for survivors of federal crimes of sexual violence. We cleared the 
Justice for All Reauthorization Act, which enhances crime survivors' 
ability to seek restitution and improves victims' access to legal 
services. And we approved the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes 
Reauthorization Act of 2016.
  Supporting and protecting victims of crime will again be an important 
priority this year in the Judiciary Committee. Last week, I convened a 
hearing to examine allegations that dozens of young athletes 
experienced sexual abuse at the hands of coaches, instructors, and 
others.
  Senators Feinstein, Collins, and I also recently introduced a bill, 
the Protecting Young Victims from Sexual Abuse Act, to ensure that 
sexual assault allegations by young athletes will be reported and 
investigated promptly. This year, we also will make it a priority to 
extend and update programs authorized under the Trafficking Victims 
Protection Act.
  In closing, crime victims and survivors in the United States deserve 
our assistance in helping them cope with the often devastating 
consequences of crime. That is why it is so important that we support 
the mission of National Crime Victims' Rights Week. I urge my 
colleagues to join me in supporting passage of this important 
resolution.

                          ____________________



