

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 15 (Monday, January 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 15 (Monday, January 30, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H714-H716]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1700
 OCMULGEE MOUNDS NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK BOUNDARY REVISION ACT OF 2017

  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 538) to redesignate Ocmulgee National Monument in the State 
of Georgia and revise its boundary, and for other purposes, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                H.R. 538

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Ocmulgee Mounds National 
     Historical Park Boundary Revision Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

       In this Act:
       (1) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
     ``Ocmulgee National Monument Proposed Boundary Adjustment, 
     numbered 363/125996'', and dated January 2016.
       (2) Historical park.--The term ``Historical Park'' means 
     the Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park in the State of 
     Georgia, as redesignated in section 3.
       (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
     of the Interior.

     SEC. 3. OCMULGEE MOUNDS NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.

       (a) Redesignation.--Ocmulgee National Monument, established 
     pursuant to the Act of June 14, 1934 (48 Stat. 958), shall be 
     known and designated as ``Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical 
     Park''.
       (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
     document, paper, or other record of the United States to 
     ``Ocmulgee National Monument'', other than in this Act, shall 
     be deemed to be a reference to ``Ocmulgee Mounds National 
     Historical Park''.

     SEC. 4. BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

       (a) In General.--The boundary of the Historical Park is 
     revised to include approximately 2,100 acres, as generally 
     depicted on the map.
       (b) Availability of Map.--The map shall be on file and 
     available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of 
     the National Park Service, the Department of the Interior.

     SEC. 5. LAND ACQUISITION; NO BUFFER ZONES.

       (a) Land Acquisition.--The Secretary is authorized to 
     acquire land and interests in land within the boundaries of 
     the Historical Park by donation or exchange only (and in the 
     case of an exchange, no payment may be made by the Secretary 
     to any landowner). The Secretary may not acquire by 
     condemnation any land or interest in land within the 
     boundaries of the Historical Park. No private property or 
     non-Federal public property shall be included within the 
     boundaries of the newly expanded portion of the Historical 
     Park under section 4(a) without the written consent of the 
     owner of such property.
       (b) No Buffer Zones.--Nothing in this Act, the 
     establishment of the Historical Park, or the management of 
     the Historical Park shall be construed to create buffer zones 
     outside of the Historical Park. That an activity or use can 
     be seen or heard from within the Historical Park shall not 
     preclude the conduct of that activity or use outside the 
     Historical Park.

     SEC. 6. ADMINISTRATION.

       The Secretary shall administer any land acquired under 
     section 5 as part of the Historical Park in accordance with 
     applicable laws and regulations.

     SEC. 7. OCMULGEE RIVER CORRIDOR SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary shall conduct a special 
     resource study of the Ocmulgee River corridor between the 
     cities of Macon, Georgia, and Hawkinsville, Georgia, to 
     determine--
       (1) the national significance of the study area;
       (2) the suitability and feasibility of adding lands in the 
     study area to the National Park System; and
       (3) the methods and means for the protection and 
     interpretation of the study area by the National Park 
     Service, other Federal, State, local government entities, 
     affiliated federally recognized Indian tribes, or private or 
     nonprofit organizations.
       (b) Criteria.--The Secretary shall conduct the study 
     authorized by this Act in accordance with section 100507 of 
     title 54, United States Code.
       (c) Results of Study.--Not later than 3 years after the 
     date on which funds are made available to carry out this 
     section, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate--
       (1) the results of the study; and
       (2) any findings, conclusions, and recommendations of the 
     Secretary.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
California (Mr. McClintock) and the gentleman from the Northern Mariana 
Islands (Mr. Sablan) each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.


                             General Leave

  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and 
include extraneous materials on the bill under consideration.

[[Page H715]]

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from California?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, the Ocmulgee Mounds are among the oldest archaeological 
sites in our country. The earthworks date back before 1000 A.D., and 
the site has evidence of human habitation dating back to the ice age, 
some 17,000 years ago. Between the 10th and 12th centuries A.D., the 
site was occupied by a sophisticated society that we know as the Macon 
Plateau culture, which built earthen mounds up to 55 feet in height, 
representing a distinct political and cultural society.
  It is believed that Hernando de Soto recorded the site as the 
chiefdom of Ichisi in 1540. Just before the American Revolution, 
naturalist William Bartram marveled at ``the wonderful remains of the 
power and grandeur of the ancients in this part of America.''
  H.R. 538, introduced by the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Bishop), 
would redesignate the Ocmulgee National Monument in Georgia as the 
Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park and adjust the boundary of the 
historical park to include approximately 2,100 new acres to be acquired 
by donation or exchange only.
  Additionally, the bill directs the Department of the Interior to 
conduct a special resource study to determine the feasibility of adding 
the Ocmulgee River corridor to the National Park System. The study will 
also examine the national significance of the site as well as the best 
methods and means for ensuring protection and interpretation of this 
area.
  The bill was passed by voice vote in the House in the 114th Congress. 
I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of its passage today.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. SABLAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the 
sponsor of the bill, the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Bishop).
  Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 
538, the Ocmulgee Mounds National Historic Park Boundary Revision Act 
of 2017.
  First, I thank the gentleman from the Northern Mariana Islands (Mr. 
Sablan) for yielding. And I thank the coauthor of the legislation, the 
gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Austin Scott), my friend and colleague. He 
has been a tireless advocate on behalf of this legislation, and we 
would not be here today without his help and his advice.
  I also thank Chairman Rob Bishop and Ranking Member Raul Grijalva 
from the full Committee on Natural Resources for their work in bringing 
this bill to the floor so early in the 115th Congress.
  In the 114th Congress, Chairman McClintock and Ranking Member Tsongas 
of the Subcommittee on Federal Lands were very helpful as well, and I 
commend them and their staffs, especially Terry Camp and Brandon 
Bragato, for their efforts.
  This legislation was approved last March by the full House of 
Representatives by voice vote. The Senate Committee on Energy and 
Natural Resources also approved a companion bill, but it was not 
considered by the full Senate prior to the adjournment of the 114th 
Congress.
  Mr. Speaker, there are few, if any, historic sites in the United 
States that have evidence of continuous human habitation from so long 
ago when the first nomadic people came to North America to hunt ice age 
mammals and again to settle the Macon Plateau. It is what makes the 
Ocmulgee National Monument so unique. On its 702 acres, one can find 
archaeological evidence from these first nomads, the mound builders of 
the Mississippian Period, British traders of the late 17th century, as 
well as the Civil War period.
  Our bipartisan legislation consists of three parts. First, it will 
expand the boundaries from approximately 702 acres to over 2,800 acres, 
providing protection to additional archaeological resources, linking 
two currently noncontiguous areas and improving the site's connection 
to the city of Macon, Georgia. Most of the land will be donated from 
nonprofit associations and government agencies. Property will also be 
acquired only from willing donors or willing sellers, subject to the 
availability of funding.
  Second, the bill would change the name from Ocmulgee National 
Monument to Ocmulgee Mounds National Historic Park, which would 
increase name recognition and draw additional visitors.
  Finally, H.R. 538 would authorize a resources study to explore the 
possibility of expanding the park even further and include additional 
opportunities for hunting, camping, fishing, and other recreational 
activities.
  The legislation enjoys widespread local support, including Macon 
mayor Robert Reichert, the Macon Chamber of Commerce, the Macon-Bibb 
Visitors Bureau, the Macon-Bibb Commission, the Macon-Bibb Economic 
Development Commission, the Ocmulgee National Park and Preserve 
Initiative, and the Inter-Tribal Council of the Five Civilized Tribes: 
Cherokee, Chickasaw, Choctaw, Muscogee (Creek), and Seminole.
  In short, I believe that H.R. 538 will strengthen the current 
Ocmulgee National Monument and bolster the economy and cultural life of 
Georgia and beyond. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation. I 
urge my colleagues to support the legislation and urge its passage.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to 
the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Austin Scott), the cosponsor of this 
legislation.
  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. Bishop). I know he has had a busy week, as I have, with 
his district being affected by the storms. I certainly want to take a 
second to thank America for their prayers and their support. It has 
been overwhelming. A tremendous number of churches have opened their 
doors, and there are volunteers out there helping people. I thank all 
who have participated.

  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 538, the Ocmulgee 
Mounds National Historical Park Boundary Revision Act of 2017. I am 
happy this legislation is being considered before the full House in 
this Congress. I am hopeful we can reach an agreement with the Senate 
to pass this legislation and have it signed into law.
  For years, there has been a great effort to bring about increased 
recognition of the enhanced cultural preservation of the Ocmulgee 
National Monument. The Ocmulgee National Monument was originally 
authorized by Congress in 1934 to protect the Old Ocmulgee Fields, 
which includes a network of very well preserved Indian mounds of great 
historical importance. The history of the fields can be traced back to 
Native Americans who first came to the site during the Paleo-Indian 
period to hunt ice age mammals.
  The park is unique in that it vividly displays the story of many 
stages of prehistoric cultural development, including the Mound Builder 
period and highlights the important role of agriculture in the region.
  I am proud to represent this area of middle Georgia along with 
Congressman Sanford Bishop. Our offices have worked together, along 
with many regional community partners, to advance this goal.
  By expanding the current Ocmulgee National Monument area from 700 
acres to just over 2,000 acres and redesignating the area as a national 
historical park, the legislation will provide significant economic, 
educational, and cultural benefits to middle Georgia. Additionally, 
H.R. 538 will authorize a resources study for future further expansions 
and include increased opportunities for hunting, fishing, camping, and 
other recreational activities.
  The expansion of the Ocmulgee National Monument area provides for 
critical preservation of additional archaeological locations throughout 
the Old Ocmulgee Fields. Because of its significant historical and 
archaeological importance, the future Ocmulgee Mounds National 
Historical Park must be preserved. The expanded park also will generate 
additional tourism in middle Georgia while educating visitors on the 
fascinating history of the many civilizations that have thrived in the 
region. It should be noted that the property in the proposed expansion 
area would be acquired only from willing donors or sellers, using 
private funds, and that no Federal dollars will be used to achieve the 
expansion.

[[Page H716]]

  I want to take this time to thank Chairman Bishop and Ranking Member 
Grijalva as well as all members of the House Committee on Natural 
Resources for their work to bring this legislation to the floor today.
  I want to close by noting that this legislation is a true example of 
what can be achieved when a local community, State leaders, and the 
Federal Government collaborate toward a worthy goal.
  The Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park Boundary Revision Act 
was created from the ground up with many letters of support from the 
Macon-Bibb area and well over 3,000 comments from individuals and 
community groups in support of the expansion. Without this 
collaboration at every level, none of this would be possible.
  I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of H.R. 538, the Ocmulgee 
Mounds National Historical Park Boundary Revision Act of 2017.
  Mr. SABLAN. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers. I urge all of my 
colleagues for the adoption of H.R. 538.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the bill.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from California (Mr. McClintock) that the House suspend the 
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 538, as amended.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



