

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 26 (Tuesday, February 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 26 (Tuesday, February 14, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1131-H1132]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




    HONORING BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY ON ITS 70TH ANNIVERSARY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. Zeldin) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Brookhaven National 
Laboratory on its 70th anniversary.
  The United States is the greatest Nation in the world, and one of the 
reasons why is Brookhaven National Laboratory. Their science research 
is aggressively pursuing cures to illnesses, protecting our national 
security, and increasing our energy independence.
  Imagine being able to witness a recreation of the very beginning of 
our universe, a replica of the primordial soup which once comprised all 
that had existed right before your very eyes. Also imagine that this 
very same equipment could be used to find cures to illnesses such as 
cancer and heart disease.
  I am proud that Brookhaven National Laboratory is located in the 
greatest congressional district in America, the First Congressional 
District of New York.
  For nearly three-quarters of a century, Brookhaven has stood as a 
world-class research center that conducts groundbreaking studies within 
the scientific community. Brookhaven asks the big questions that 
scientists have been researching for generations, and has allowed us to 
look into the building blocks of our world.
  Between preservation of our ecosystem, studies on the environment, 
and researching new forms of sustainable energy, Brookhaven is a world 
leader in scientific research.
  There is also incredible cultural and historical relevance of the 
site of Brookhaven National Laboratory. There was once a World War I 
Army training center called Camp Upton located where Brookhaven stands 
today. It was at this camp that Irving Berlin wrote ``God Bless 
America'' while serving in the U.S. Army.
  Brookhaven is not only a local and regional treasure, but also a 
national asset. The machines in Brookhaven have been utilized by the 
most brilliant minds in America, from the scientists of MIT and Yale to 
the engineers at GE and IBM.
  While there are 17 national labs across our great country, Brookhaven 
is a unique user facility which focuses in a number of disciplines, not 
limited to particle physics, chemical engineering, and systems 
engineering and integration.
  In previous Congresses, critical funding has been provided in support 
of the ARPA-E program for several of Brookhaven's phenomenal projects 
on energy production and storage, and so much more.
  There has been discussion in the past to cut funding for Brookhaven's 
nuclear physics program to levels that haven't been seen since 2008. 
This would be a mistake.
  Brookhaven features some of the most important scientific efforts in 
the world, with assets like the National Synchrotron Light Source II, 
or NSLS-II. NSLS-II has allowed for incredible advancement in the 
research and development of super conductors, which have the potential 
to revolutionize energy consumption in the U.S. and save into the 
billions for the American people and American businesses.
  Another program in need of our continued support is the Relativistic 
Heavy Ion Collider, or RHIC. This multi-faceted machine is essential 
for studies on matter and has key practical applications, like figuring 
out

[[Page H1132]]

how to best protect our homeland using detector technology.
  There is also the Brookhaven Linac Isotope Producer, or BLIP, which 
has been recently upgraded to advance the field of medical science. 
This upgrade allows BLIP to better diagnose and treat illnesses, 
including heart disease and many forms of cancer, such as leukemia and 
melanoma.
  With Congress' continued support, there is limitless potential for 
needed discovery and advancement.
  I thank the Speaker for allowing me to discuss this amazing national 
treasure. I also thank Doon Gibbs, who is the lab director, for his 
outstanding leadership at this facility.
  It is a privilege to stand here on the floor of the U.S. House of 
Representatives to speak on behalf of America's great scientists and 
their vital work.
  Congratulations again to Brookhaven National Laboratory on 70 years 
of groundbreaking, innovative research.
  And to everyone at home, Happy Valentine's Day.

                          ____________________



