

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 11 (Friday, January 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 11 (Friday, January 20, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H559-H560]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, asfollows:

           By Mr. SMITH of Texas (for himself, Ms. Eddie Bernice 
             Johnson of Texas, Mr.Weber of Texas, Mr. Knight, Mr. 
             Hultgren, Mr. Lucas, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Rohrabacher, 
             Ms.Esty, Mr. Babin, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Banks of 
             Indiana, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Biggs, Mr. Dunn,and Mr. 
             Higgins of Louisiana):
       H.R. 589. A bill to establish Department of Energy policy 
     forscience and energy research and development programs, and 
     reform National Laboratory management and technology 
     transferprograms, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr.LATTA (for himself, Mr. McNerney, Mr. 
             Fleischmann, Mr.

[[Page H560]]

             Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, Mr.Hudson, and Mr. 
             Tonko):
       H.R. 590. A bill to foster civilian research and 
     developmentof advanced nuclear energy technologies and 
     enhance the licensing and commercial deployment of such 
     technologies; to theCommittee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, 
     for a period to besubsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of thecommittee concerned.
           By Mr. BRAT (for himself, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Burgess, 
             Mr.Griffith, Mr. Babin, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, 
             Mr. Buck, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Emmer, and Mr.Byrne):
       H.R. 591. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to require depositsinto the Immigration Examinations Fee 
     Account to be subject to appropriations, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on theJudiciary.
           By Mr. GUTHRIE (for himself, Mr. Kind, Mr. Reed, Mr. 
             Butterfield,Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. King of Iowa, Ms. 
             Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. Bost, Mr. Foster, 
             Mr.Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. 
             Shuster, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of Florida, Mr.Tipton, 
             Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Young of 
             Alaska, Mrs. McMorris Rodgers, Ms.Norton, Mr. 
             Langevin, Mr. Stewart, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Bilirakis, 
             Mr. Connolly, Mr.Lipinski, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Meehan, 
             Mr. Collins of Georgia, Mr. Long, Mr. Massie, 
             Mr.Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. Walberg, Mr. Hill, Ms. 
             Speier, Ms. DelBene, Mrs. Walorski, Ms.Pingree, Mr. 
             Carter of Texas, Mr. Blum, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Rogers 
             of Kentucky, Mr. Peterson,Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Smith of 
             Texas, Mr. Tiberi, Mr. Webster of Florida, Ms. 
             Tsongas, Mr.Delaney, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Hunter, Mr. 
             Messer, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Jones, Mr. Knight, 
             Mrs.Comstock, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. Larson of 
             Connecticut, Mr. Collins of New York, Mr. Royce 
             ofCalifornia, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Hastings, Mr. 
             Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Austin Scott of 
             Georgia, Mr.Cohen, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. 
             Mullin, Mr. Hensarling, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Joyce ofOhio, 
             Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Mr. 
             Barletta, Mr. Turner, Mr. Olson, Mr.Cramer, Mr. 
             Byrne, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Walz, Mr. Veasey, Mr. 
             Katko, Mr. Hurd, Mr.Hudson, Mr. Pocan, Ms. McSally, 
             Mr. Marino, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Harper, Mr. 
             DesJarlais,Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Heck, Mr. Shimkus, Mr. 
             Paulsen, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, 
             Mr.Welch, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Graves of Missouri, Mr. 
             Abraham, Mr. Bishop of Michigan, Ms. Moore,Mr. Lance, 
             Mr. Lucas, Mr. Kinzinger, Mr. Luetkemeyer, Ms. 
             Gabbard, Ms. Kelly of Illinois,Mr. Dent, Mr. 
             Poliquin, and Mr. Emmer):
       H.R. 592. A bill to amend title XVIII ofthe Social Security 
     Act to provide for coverage under the Medicare program of 
     pharmacist services; to the Committee on Energyand Commerce, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, ineach 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CAPUANO (for himself, Mr. Jones, and Mr. 
             Peters):
       H.R. 593. Abill to amend the Federal Election Campaign Act 
     of 1971 to prohibit the conversion of leadership PAC funds to 
     personal use; tothe Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. CAPUANO (for himself and Mr. Lynch):
       H.R. 594. A bill to establish the Securities and 
     Derivatives Commission in order to combine thefunctions of 
     the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Securities 
     and Exchange Commission in a single independentregulatory 
     commission; to the Committee on Financial Services, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Agriculture, for a period tobe 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction ofthe committee concerned.
           By Mr. CAPUANO:
       H.R. 595. A bill to amendthe Federal Reserve Act to reform 
     the Federal Reserve System; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services, and in addition to theCommittees on Rules, and 
     Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in eachcase for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. DeLAURO:
       H.R. 596. A bill to require the President to withdraw from 
     the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. DENHAM:
       H.R. 597. A bill to take lands in Sonoma County, 
     California, into trust as part of the reservationof the 
     Lytton Rancheria of California, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. LYNCH (for himself, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Gallego, 
             Mr. Capuano, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts,Ms. Sinema, 
             Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Beyer, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Crowley, Ms. 
             Meng, Ms. Speier, Ms.Norton, Mr. Lipinski, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Peters, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, 
             Miss Rice ofNew York, and Mr. Suozzi):
       H.R. 598. A bill to require the Administrator of the 
     FederalAviation Administration to commission a study of the 
     health impacts of airplane flights on affected residents of 
     certainmetropolitan areas, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.

                          ____________________



