

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 51 (Thursday, March 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 51 (Thursday, March 23, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2362]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM

  (Mr. HOYER asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. 
McCarthy), my friend, for the purpose of inquiring of the majority 
leader the schedule for tomorrow.
  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
  Members are advised that votes are now expected in the House 
tomorrow, March 24, 2017. I know this is a change from our previously 
announced schedule. Members should be prepared for multiple vote 
series, the first of which will be as early as 10 a.m.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman.
  May I ask, do you know when the Rules Committee will meet, Mr. 
Majority Leader?
  I yield to the gentleman.
  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
  The Rules Committee will meet tomorrow morning. I anticipate a short 
amendment will be posted as early as tonight. It is our expectation the 
Rules Committee will meet tomorrow morning to report the rule providing 
for consideration of H.R. 1628, the American Health Care Act.
  Upon adoption of that rule, the House will proceed with general 
debate on the measure and final passage.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman.
  Mr. Leader, if the Rules Committee meets, say, at 9 a.m., and you 
said the earliest vote at 10 a.m., obviously, a lot of our Members are 
focused on what time they have to be here to make sure they make a 
vote, and you said the earliest would be 10, but if you have the Rules 
Committee reporting out, would it be perhaps closer to 10:30?
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to my friend.
  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
  I anticipate the Rules Committee meeting earlier than 9 a.m. 
tomorrow.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, can the gentleman tell us how long you 
anticipate the debate on the bill itself would be? Obviously, I am 
asking that in the context of when can Members believe that we may be 
concluding tomorrow's business?
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to my friend.
  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
  It is our anticipation to be done in the afternoon, but the gentleman 
may know better how long it will take based upon as we move through 
during the day.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I am not going to tell the gentleman, but it 
was a good fishing trip that the gentleman was on.
  I thank the gentleman, but my assumption is that Members can be 
relatively confident, based upon what we are going to do and what you 
are going to do, to be out of here somewhere before 5 p.m. tomorrow; is 
that correct?
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to my friend.
  Mr. McCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I don't want to grab the exact time, but 
it is our anticipation, after the Rules Committee meets, that we come 
down and have a rules vote. We will have hours of debate, and then we 
will proceed with the vote, and as orderly as we can get done, we will 
get done by the afternoon as early as possible.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gentleman's information, and 
I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



