

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 50 (Wednesday, March 22, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1929-S1930]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                            MORNING BUSINESS

                                 ______
                                 

                        COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET

                                 ______
                                 

                           RULES OF PROCEDURE

  Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the rules of 
the Senate Committee on the Budget for the 115th Congress be printed in 
the Record.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                           RULES OF PROCEDURE


                              I. MEETINGS

       (1) The committee shall hold its regular meeting on the 
     first Thursday of each month. Additional meetings may be 
     called by the chair as the chair deems necessary to expedite 
     committee business.
       (2) Each meeting of the committee, including meetings to 
     conduct hearings, shall be open to the public, except that a 
     portion or portions of any such meeting may be closed to the 
     public if the committee determines by record vote in open 
     session of a majority of the members of the committee present 
     that the matters to be discussed or the testimony to be taken 
     at such portion or portions--
       (a) will disclose matters necessary to be kept secret in 
     the interests of national defense or the confidential conduct 
     of the foreign relations of the United States;
       (b) will relate solely to matters of the committee staff 
     personnel or internal staff management or procedure;
       (c) will tend to charge an individual with crime or 
     misconduct, to disgrace or injure the professional standing 
     of an individual, or otherwise to expose an individual to 
     public contempt or obloquy, or will represent a clearly 
     unwarranted invasion of the privacy of an individual;
       (d) will disclose the identity of any informer or law 
     enforcement agent or will disclose any information relating 
     to the investigation or prosecution of a criminal offense 
     that is required to be kept secret in the interests of 
     effective law enforcement; or
       (e) will disclose information relating to the trade secrets 
     or financial or commercial information pertaining 
     specifically to a given person if--
       (i) an act of Congress requires the information to be kept 
     confidential by Government officers and employees; or
       (ii) the information has been obtained by the Government on 
     a confidential basis, other than through an application by 
     such person for a specific Government financial or other 
     benefit, and is required to be kept secret in order to 
     prevent undue injury to the competitive position of such 
     person.
       (f) may divulge matters required to be kept confidential 
     under other provisions of law or Government regulations.
       (3) Notice of, and the agenda for, any business meeting or 
     markup shall be provided to each member and made available to 
     the public at least 72 hours prior to such meeting or markup.


                II. CONSIDERATION OF BUDGET RESOLUTIONS

       (1) If the chair of the committee makes proposed 
     legislative text of a concurrent resolution on the budget 
     available to all committee members by 12:00 p.m., five days 
     prior to the start of a meeting or markup to consider the 
     resolution, during that meeting or markup:
       (a) it shall not be in order to consider a first degree 
     amendment unless the amendment has been submitted to the 
     chief clerk by 5:00 p.m. two days prior to the start of the 
     meeting or markup, except that an amendment in the nature of 
     a substitute offered by the chair of the committee shall not 
     be required to be filed in advance, and
       (b) it shall not be in order to consider a second degree 
     amendment unless the amendment has been submitted to the 
     chief clerk by 5:00 p.m. on the day prior to the start of the 
     meeting or markup, and
       (c) it shall not be in order to consider a side-by-side 
     amendment unless the amendment has been submitted to the 
     chief clerk by 5:00 p.m. on the day prior to the start of the 
     meeting or markup, and the amendment is filed in relation to 
     a particular first degree amendment that is considered by the 
     committee.
       (2) During consideration of a concurrent resolution on the 
     budget, it shall not be in order to consider an amendment 
     that would have no force or effect if adopted.


                       III. ORDER OF RECOGNITION

       Those members who are present at the start of any meeting 
     of the committee including meetings to conduct hearings, 
     shall be recognized in order of seniority based on time 
     served as a member of the committee. Any members arriving 
     after the start of the meeting shall be recognized, in order 
     of appearance, after the most junior member.


                         IV. QUORUMS AND VOTING

       (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3) of this 
     section, a quorum for the transaction of committee business 
     shall consist of not less than one-third of the membership of 
     the entire committee: Provided, that proxies shall not be 
     counted in making a quorum.
       (2) A majority of the committee shall constitute a quorum 
     for reporting budget resolutions, legislative measures or 
     recommendations: Provided, that proxies shall not be counted 
     in making a quorum.
       (3) For the purpose of taking sworn or unsworn testimony, a 
     quorum of the committee shall consist of one Senator.
       (4)(a) The committee may poll--
       (i) internal committee matters including those concerning 
     the committee's staff, records, and budget;
       (ii) steps in an investigation, including issuance of 
     subpoenas, applications for immunity orders, and requests for 
     documents from agencies; and
       (iii) other committee business that the committee has 
     designated for polling at a meeting, except that the 
     committee may not vote by poll on reporting to the Senate any 
     measure, matter, or recommendation, and may not vote by poll 
     on closing a meeting or hearing to the public.
       (b) To conduct a poll, the chair shall circulate polling 
     sheets to each member specifying the matter being polled and 
     the time limit for completion of the poll. If any member 
     requests, the matter shall be held for a meeting rather than 
     being polled. The chief clerk shall keep a record of polls; 
     if the committee determines by record vote in open session of 
     a majority of the members of the committee present that the 
     polled matter is one of those enumerated in rule I(2)(a)-(e), 
     then the record of the poll shall be confidential. Any member 
     may move at the committee meeting following a poll for a vote 
     on the polled decision.


                               V. PROXIES

       When a record vote is taken in the committee on any bill, 
     resolution, amendment, or any other question, a quorum being 
     present, a member who is unable to attend the meeting may 
     vote by proxy if the absent member has been informed of the 
     matter on which the vote is being recorded and has 
     affirmatively requested to be so recorded; except that no 
     member may vote by proxy during the deliberations on Budget 
     Resolutions unless a member is experiencing a health issue 
     and the chair and ranking member agree to allow that member 
     to vote by proxy on amendments to a Budget Resolution.


                  VI. HEARINGS AND HEARING PROCEDURES

       (1) The committee shall make public announcement of the 
     date, place, time, and subject matter of any hearing to be 
     conducted on any measure or matter at least 1 week in advance 
     of such hearing, unless the chair and ranking member 
     determine that there is good cause to begin such hearing at 
     an earlier date.
       (2) At least 24 hours prior to the scheduled start time of 
     the hearing, a witness appearing before the committee shall 
     file a written statement of proposed testimony with the chief 
     clerk who is responsible for circulating the proposed 
     testimony to all members at the same time. The requirement 
     that a witness submit testimony 24 hours prior to a hearing 
     may be waived by the chair and the ranking member, following 
     their determination that there is good cause for the failure 
     of compliance.


                         VII. COMMITTEE REPORTS

       (1) When the committee has ordered a measure or 
     recommendation reported, following final action, the report 
     thereon shall be filed in the Senate at the earliest 
     practicable time.
       (2) A member of the committee, who gives notice of an 
     intention to file supplemental, minority, or additional views 
     at the time of final committee approval of a measure or 
     matter, shall be entitled to not less than 3 calendar days in 
     which to file such views, in writing, with the chief clerk of 
     the committee. Such views shall then be included in the 
     committee report and printed in the same volume, as a part 
     thereof, and their inclusions shall be noted on the cover of 
     the report. In the absence of timely notice, the committee 
     report may be filed and printed immediately without such 
     views.

[[Page S1930]]

  



              VIII. USE OF DISPLAY MATERIALS IN COMMITTEE

       Committee members may use the electronic display system 
     provided in the committee hearing room or physical graphic 
     displays during any meetings or hearings of the committee. 
     Physical graphic displays are limited to the following:
       Charts, photographs, or renderings:
       Size: no larger than 36 inches by 48 inches.
       Where: on an easel stand next to the member's seat or at 
     the rear of the committee room.
       When: only at the time the member is speaking.
       Number: no more than two may be displayed at a time.


               IX. CONFIRMATION STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES

       (1) Standards. In considering a nomination, the committee 
     shall inquire into the nominee's experience, qualifications, 
     suitability, and integrity to serve in the position to which 
     he or she has been nominated. The committee shall recommend 
     confirmation if it finds that the nominee has the necessary 
     integrity and is affirmatively qualified by reason of 
     training, education, or experience to carry out the functions 
     of the office to which he or she was nominated.
       (2) Information Concerning the Nominee. Each nominee shall 
     submit the following information to the chief clerk, who will 
     distribute to the chairman and ranking member at the same 
     time:
       (a) A detailed biographical resume which contains 
     information concerning education, employment, and background 
     which generally relates to the position to which the 
     individual is nominated, and which is to be made public;
       (b) Information concerning financial and other background 
     of the nominee which is to be made public; provided, that 
     financial information that does not relate to the nominee's 
     qualifications to hold the position to which the individual 
     is nominated, tax returns or reports prepared by federal 
     agencies that may be submitted by the nominee shall, after 
     review by the chair, ranking member, or any other member of 
     the committee upon request, be maintained in a manner to 
     ensure confidentiality; and,
       (c) Copies of other relevant documents and responses to 
     questions as the committee may so request, such as responses 
     to questions concerning the policies and programs the nominee 
     intends to pursue upon taking office.
       (3) Report on the Nominee. After a review of all 
     information pertinent to the nomination, a confidential 
     report on the nominee may be prepared by the committee staff 
     for the chair, the ranking member and, upon request, for any 
     other member of the committee. The report shall summarize the 
     steps taken and the results of the committee inquiry, 
     including any unresolved matters that have been raised during 
     the course of the inquiry.
       (4) Hearings. The committee shall conduct a hearing during 
     which the nominee shall be called to testify under oath on 
     all matters relating to his or her suitability for office, 
     including the policies and programs which he or she would 
     pursue while in that position. No hearing or meeting to 
     consider the confirmation shall be held until at least 72 
     hours after the following events have occurred: the nominee 
     has responded to the requirements set forth in subsection 
     (2), and, if a report described in subsection (3) has been 
     prepared, it has been presented to the chairman and ranking 
     member, and is available to other members of the committee, 
     upon request.

                          ____________________



