

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 59 (Wednesday, April 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 59 (Wednesday, April 5, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2702-H2703]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         RECOGNIZING THE UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA GAMECOCKS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
South Carolina (Mr. Clyburn) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate the University of 
South Carolina Gamecocks basketball team.
  It was the thrill of a lifetime to attend the NCAA women's basketball 
national championship game last Sunday at the American Airlines Center 
in Dallas, Texas.
  The Gamecocks have electrified Columbia and the entire State of South 
Carolina. We are all incredibly proud of what these coaches and players 
have achieved.
  For head coach Dawn Staley, winning the national championship is the 
latest in a string of achievements that she has accumulated in her 
lifetime and in South Carolina over the last 9 years.
  Under her leadership, the Gamecocks have made the NCAA tournament 6 
years in a row and went on to the Final Four in 2015.
  This year, they finally got over the hump and are national champions. 
Her coaching staff have done an impressive job, and I congratulate each 
of them.
  The team Coach Staley has built is an incredible group of young women 
from South Carolina and around the country. A'ja Wilson, a junior from 
Hopkins, South Carolina, won the Most Outstanding Player Award of the 
Final Four and was named to the All-SEC first team this season.
  Wilson was joined on the All-SEC first team by senior Alaina Coates 
from Irmo, South Carolina. Unfortunately, Coates missed the NCAA 
tournament with an ankle injury and has concluded a fantastic career 
with the Gamecocks.
  In addition to making the All-SEC first team this year, she did so 
last year as well and was All-SEC second team her first 2 years in the 
program. We wish her a speedy recovery and hope that she has as much 
success in the future as she has had with the Gamecocks.

[[Page H2703]]

  The Gamecocks finished 2017 with a 33-4 record and won their third 
consecutive Southeastern Conference Championship en route to this 
national championship. The Gamecocks have developed an incredible fan 
base. They have led the Nation in attendance for women's basketball 
over the last several years.
  In addition to their success on the court, these coaches and players 
are role models off the court. I especially want to acknowledge 
assistant coach Nikki McCray-Penson. Diagnosed with cancer 3 years ago, 
she has been a real inspiration to many.
  Throughout her treatment, she remained totally committed to the team 
and never missed a day of work. Thankfully, she is now cancer free.
  I also want to congratulate the Gamecocks men's team. After winning 
their first NCAA tournament game in 43 years, they reached the Final 
Four for the first time in their program's history.
  Having both men and women from the same school reach the Final Four 
is pretty uncommon. Coach Frank Martin and his assistants are building 
a tremendous program. Although they came up five points short of a 
victory in the semi-championship game, they proved themselves a team of 
champions.
  Mr. Speaker, although representing the University of South Carolina 
in this august body is a singular honor for me, I feel certain that 
these 2017 NCAA Final Four appearances by these young men and women are 
the beginnings of many more to come. Coach Frank Martin and Coach Dawn 
Staley are truly a dynamic duo.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate the University of South Carolina 
Gamecocks basketball team. It was the thrill of a lifetime to attend 
the NCAA women's basketball national championship game last Sunday at 
the American Airlines Center in Dallas, Texas. Gamecocks have 
electrified Columbia and the entire state of South Carolina, and we are 
all incredibly proud of what these coaches and players have achieved.
  For Head Coach Dawn Staley, winning the national championship is the 
latest in a string of achievements that she has accumulated in her 
lifetime and in South Carolina over the last nine seasons. Under her 
leadership, the Gamecocks have made the NCAA Tournament six years in a 
row and went to the final four in 2015. This year, they finally got 
over the hump and are national champions. Her coaching staff, Lisa 
Boyer, Nikki McCray-Penson, Fred Chmiel, Melanie Balcomb, Cynthia 
Jordan, Freddy Ready, Ariana Moore, Hudson Jacobs, Marcella Shorty, 
Katie Fowler have done an impressive job, and I congratulate each of 
them.
  The team Coach Staley has built is an incredible group of young women 
from South Carolina and around the country. A'ja Wilson, a Junior from 
Hopkins, South Carolina, won the Most Outstanding Player of the Final 
Four award and was named to the All-SEC First Team this season. Wilson 
was joined on the All-SEC First Team by Senior Alaina Coates from Irmo, 
South Carolina. Unfortunately Coates missed the NCAA tournament with an 
ankle injury and has concluded a fantastic career with the Gamecocks. 
In addition to making All-SEC First team this year, she did so last 
season as well, and was All-SEC Second team in her first two years in 
the program. We wish her a speedy recovery and hope that she has as 
much success in the future as she has had with the Gamecocks.
  The full roster of this championship team includes Victoria Patrick, 
Bianca Cuevas-Moore, Kaela Davis, Doniyah Cliney, Allisha Gray, Araion 
Bradshaw, Tiffany Davis, Mikiah Herbert Harrigan, A'ja Wilson, Alexis 
Jennings, Alaina Coates, and Tyasha Harris.
  The Gamecocks finished 2017 with a 33-4 record and won their third 
consecutive Southeastern Conference Championship en route to this 
national championship. The Gamecocks have developed an incredible fan 
base. They have led the nation in attendance for women's basketball 
over the last several years. In addition to their success on the court, 
these coaches and players are role models off the court. I especially 
want to acknowledge Assistant Coach Nikki McCray-Penson. Diagnosed with 
cancer three years ago, she has been a real inspiration to many. 
Throughout her treatment she remained totally committed to the team, 
and never missed a day of work. Thankfully, she is now cancer free.
  I also wish to congratulate the Gamecocks Men's team. After winning 
their first NCAA tournament game in 43 years they reached the final 
four for the first time in their programs history. Having both men and 
women from the same school reach the final four is pretty uncommon.
  Coach Frank Martin, his assistants and staff consisting, of Matt 
Figger, Perry Clark, Bruce Shingler, Andy Assaley, Scott Greenawalt, 
Doug Edwards, Mark Rodger, Jay Gibbons, Dushawn Davis, Jarett Gerald, 
Brian Steele, Ryan McIntyre recruited and molded an incredible group of 
young men including TeMarcus Blanton, Tommy Corchiani, PJ Dozier, Rakym 
Felder, Hassani Gravett, Khadim Gueye, Evan Hinson, Kory Holden, 
Jarrell Holliman, Sedee Keita, Maik Kotsar, Justin McKie, Duane Notice, 
John Ragin, Christian Schmitt, Chris Silva, Sindarius Thornwell, Ran 
Tut are building a tremendous program.
  Although they came up five points short of a victory in the semi-
championship game they proved themselves a team of champions.
  Mr. Speaker, although representing the University of South Carolina 
in this august body is a singular honor for me, I feel certain that 
these 2017 NCAA Final Four appearances by these young men and women are 
the beginnings of many more to come. Coach Frank Martin and Coach Dawn 
Staley are truly a dynamic duo.

                          ____________________



