

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S62-S65]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




        SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION4--CLARIFYING ANY POTENTIAL 
MISUNDERSTANDING AS TO WHETHER ACTIONS TAKEN BY PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD 
 TRUMP CONSTITUTE A VIOLATIONOF THE EMOLUMENTS CLAUSE, AND CALLING ON 
    PRESIDENT-ELECT TRUMP TO DIVEST HIS INTEREST IN, AND SEVER HIS 
                 RELATIONSHIP TO, THETRUMP ORGANIZATION

  Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. Leahy, Ms. Warren, Mr. Carper, Mrs. 
Murray, Mr. Wyden, Mr.Durbin, Mr. Reed, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Brown, Mr. 
Casey, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Whitehouse,Mr. Udall, Mr. Merkley, Mr. 
Bennet, Mr. Franken, Mr. Coons, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms.Baldwin, Mr. Murphy, 
Ms. Hirono, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Markey, Mr. Booker, Mr. Peters, Mr.Van 
Hollen, and Mrs. Feinstein) submitted the following concurrent 
resolution; which was referred to the Committeeon Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs:

                             S. Con. Res. 4

       Whereas article I, section 9,clause 8 of the United States 
     Constitution (commonly known as the ``Emoluments Clause'') 
     declares, ``No title of Nobility shallbe granted by the 
     United States: And no Person holding any Office of Profit or 
     Trust under them, shall, without the Consent ofthe Congress, 
     accept of any present, Emolument, Office, or

[[Page S63]]

     Title, of any kind whatever, from any King, Prince, or 
     foreignState.'';
       Whereas, according to the remarks of Governor Edmund 
     Randolph at the 1787 Constitutional Convention, the 
     EmolumentsClause ``was thought proper, in order to exclude 
     corruption and foreign influence, to prohibit any one in 
     office from receivingor holding any emoluments from foreign 
     states'';
       Whereas the issue of foreign corruption greatly concerned 
     the FoundingFathers of the United States, such that Alexander 
     Hamilton in Federalist No. 22 wrote, ``In republics, persons 
     elevated from themass of the community, by the suffrages of 
     their fellow-citizens, to stations of great pre-eminence and 
     power, may findcompensations for betraying their trust, 
     which, to any but minds animated and guided by superior 
     virtue, may appear to exceedthe proportion of interest they 
     have in the common stock, and to overbalance the obligations 
     of duty. Hence it is that historyfurnishes us with so many 
     mortifying examples of the prevalency of foreign corruption 
     in republican governments.'';
       Whereasthe President of the United States is the head of 
     the executive branch of the Federal Government and is 
     expected to haveundivided loyalty to the United States, and 
     clearly occupies an ``office of profit or trust'' within the 
     meaning of article I,section 9, clause 8 of the Constitution, 
     according to the Office of Legal Counsel of the Department of 
     Justice;
       Whereas theOffice of Legal Counsel of the Department of 
     Justice opined in 2009 that corporations owned or controlled 
     by a foreigngovernment are presumptively foreign states under 
     the Emoluments Clause;
       Whereas President-elect Donald J. Trump has abusiness 
     network, the Trump Organization, that has financial interests 
     around the world and negotiates and concludestransactions 
     with foreign states and entities that are extensions of 
     foreign states;
       Whereas Michael Cohen, an attorney forDonald J. Trump and 
     the Trump Organization, initially stated that the Trump 
     Organization would be placed into a ``blind trust''managed by 
     Donald Trump's children, Donald Trump, Jr., Ivanka Trump, and 
     Eric Trump;
       Whereas the very nature of a ``blindtrust'' is such that 
     the official will have no control over, will receive no 
     communications about, and will have no knowledge ofthe 
     identity of the specific assets held in the trust, and that 
     the manager of the trust is independent of the owner, and 
     assuch the arrangement proposed by Mr. Cohen is not a blind 
     trust;
       Whereas, on November 30, 2016, President-elect Donald 
     J.Trump announced on Twitter that ``I will be holding a major 
     news conference in New York City with my children on December 
     15 todiscuss the fact that I will be leaving my great 
     business in total in order to fully focus on running the 
     country in order toMAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!'';
       Whereas, on December 12, 2016, President-elect Donald J. 
     Trump abruptly canceled the plannedDecember 15, 2016 news 
     conference, and has provided no set date for a future 
     announcement;
       Whereas, on December 12, 2016,President-elect Donald J. 
     Trump stated on Twitter, ``Even though I am not mandated by 
     law to do so, I will be leaving mybusineses [sic] before 
     January 20th so that I can focus full time on the Presidency. 
     Two of my children, Don and Eric, plusexecutives, will manage 
     them. No new deals will be done during my term(s) in 
     office'';
       Whereas numerous legal andconstitutional experts, including 
     several former White House ethics counsels, have made clear 
     that, notwithstanding the problemsinherent in temporarily 
     ceding control of the Trump Organization to his children, 
     such an arrangement, in which the President-elect fails to 
     exit the ownership of his businesses through use of a blind 
     trust or equivalent, will leave the President-electwith a 
     personal financial interest in businesses that collect 
     foreign government payments and benefits, which raises 
     bothconstitutional and public interest concerns;
       Whereas Presidents Ronald Reagan, George H. W. Bush, 
     William J. Clinton, andGeorge W. Bush have set the precedent 
     of using true blind trusts, in which their holdings were 
     liquidated and placed in newinvestments unknown to them by an 
     independent trustee who managed them free of familial bias;
       Whereas the continuedintermingling of the business of the 
     Trump Organization and the work of government has the 
     potential to constitute the foreigncorruption so feared by 
     the Founding Fathers and to betray the trust of America's 
     citizens;
       Whereas the intent of thisresolution is to prevent any 
     potential misunderstanding or crisis with regards to whether 
     the actions of Donald J. Trump asPresident of the United 
     States will violate the Emoluments Clause of the 
     Constitution, Federal law, or fundamental principles 
     ofethics; and
       Whereas Congress has an institutional, constitutional 
     obligation to ensure that the President of the UnitedStates 
     does not violate the Emoluments Clause and is discharging the 
     obligations of office based on the national interest, 
     notbased on personal interest: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved by the Senate (the House of 
     Representativesconcurring), That Congress--
       (1) calls upon President-elect Donald J. Trump to follow 
     the precedent established by priorPresidents and convert his 
     assets to simple, conflict-free holdings, adopt blind trusts 
     managed by an independent trustee withno relationship to 
     Donald J. Trump or his businesses, or take other equivalent 
     measures, in order to ensure compliance with theEmoluments 
     Clause of the United States Constitution;
       (2) calls upon President-elect Donald J. Trump not to use 
     the powers oropportunities of his position as President-elect 
     or President of the United States for any purpose related to 
     the TrumpOrganization; and
       (3) regards, in the absence of such actions outlined in 
     paragraph (1) or specific authorization byCongress, dealings 
     that Donald J. Trump, as President of the United States, may 
     have through his companies with foreigngovernments or 
     entities owned or controlled by foreign governments as 
     potential violations of the Emoluments Clause.

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, it is with a renewed sense of purpose that 
I reintroduce my resolution on the Emoluments Clause.It is a resolution 
intended to uphold the values and strictures of one of our most sacred 
documents. I am referring, of course,to the Constitution, the 
instrument that, in but a short time, President-elect Donald Trump will 
take an oath to preserve,protect, and defend.
  Our Founding Fathers could not have been clearer that any Federal 
office holder of the United States must never be put in aposition where 
he or she could be influenced by a foreign governmental actor. It was a 
concern made explicit by AlexanderHamilton's writings in Federalist No. 
22, in which he noted examples of republics that had been ruthlessly 
dismembered by theirhostile neighbors who had paralyzed the victim 
republic by bribing its officers and officials.
  The Founding Fathers addressed this grave concern by placing the 
Emoluments Clause within the Constitution as an explicitbar on foreign 
corruption and interference. Article I, section 9, clause 8 of the 
United States Constitution declaresthat:

       No title of Nobility shall be granted by the United States: 
     And no Person holding any Officeof Profit or Trust under 
     them, shall, without the Consent of the Congress, accept of 
     any present, Emolument, Office, or Title,of any kind 
     whatever, from any King, Prince, or foreign State.

  Longstanding precedent has made it plain that the President of the 
United States, as the head of the executive branch of thegovernment, 
clearly occupies an ``office of profit or trust''. As such, the 
Emoluments Clause clearly applies to and constrainswhomever holds the 
office of the Presidency.
  Past American presidents have recognized the danger of foreign 
corruption and interference, or merely the perception ofcorruption and 
interference, and have accordingly taken great pains to avoid even the 
appearance of impropriety with regard totheir personal wealth and 
investments, ensuring that such investments never interfere with 
performing their duties as Presidentof the United States. Presidents 
Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, George Herbert Walker Bush, Bill Clinton, 
and George W. Bush allhad their assets placed into blind trust while 
they were President. To fulfill his promises of greater government 
transparency,President Obama went even further and invested the vast 
majority of his funds in U.S. Treasury bonds.
  The President-elect has claimed he will ``absolutely sever'' his ties 
to the Trump Organization, which has financialinterests around the 
world and negotiates and concludes transactions with foreign states, as 
well as entities that areextensions of foreign states. We have a 
constitutional duty to ensure that he does. It is easy to imagine 
circumstances in whicha foreign government will want to give President 
Trump a personal gift through his businesses with the intent to curry 
favorwith him and seek to influence his decisions in ways that benefit 
them, instead of the American people--precisely the danger ourFounding 
Fathers sought to protect against with the Emoluments Clause.
  This is not an esoteric argument about rules that do not affect real 
people. Put simply, the American public has a right toknow that the 
President of the United States is always acting in their best interest, 
and not take the risk that his actions areinfluenced by some benefit or 
gift from a foreign government like Russia or China. The citizens of 
this country need to knowthat when the President of the United States 
is making decisions about potential trade agreements, sending troops 
into war, orspending America's great resources, those actions are 
motivated by the public interest, and not because they might advance 
orharm

[[Page S64]]

the President's private pecuniary interests.
  We should be concerned when the President-elect is connected to an 
organization that has dealings with countries andentities that are not 
interested in distinguishing between doing business with President 
Trump and the profit-makingorganization that bears his name. The 
President-elect's failure thus far to dispose of his business interests 
in a comprehensivefashion has left this door wide open, and we are 
already seeing indications that foreign companies and businesses are 
beginningto take advantage. Kuwait's National Day event, which has 
traditionally been held at the Four Seasons in Washington, D.C., 
wasmoved to the Trump International Hotel, allegedly because of 
pressure--or perhaps merely a suggestion--from the President-
elect'sassociates. Similarly, Bahrain has chosen to schedule an event 
to take place at the Trump International Hotel.
  News reports suggest that one day after a phone call between 
President-elect Trump and the President of Argentina, permitsunder 
review for the Trump building in Buenos Aires were suddenly approved. 
In China, just days after the presidential election,Donald Trump scored 
a legal victory in a decade-long trademark dispute over the right to 
use the Trump name for real estateagent services in commercial and 
residential properties in China. The timing of these actions is 
interesting, to put it mildly.
  I sincerely regret the necessity of reintroducing this resolution. 
Just after Thanksgiving, when President-elect Trump helda press 
conference to state that on December 15, 2016, he would make an 
announcement about his future with the TrumpOrganization, I publicly 
said how encouraged I was to see the President-elect's positive 
response. When I first introduced thisresolution, my intent was to 
create an opportunity for the President-elect to act and remove this as 
an issue, so that he couldput aside any appearance of impropriety and 
devote himself to good work on behalf of the American people. That is 
why I wasdisappointed when Mr. Trump abruptly canceled his December 15 
announcement--and, as of today, he has not yet rescheduled it. 
Thisissue is far too critical to kick the can down the road, or to 
ignore, before an incipient violation of the Constitution becomesan 
actual violation.
  Even before Mr. Trump's cancellation of his December 15 announcement, 
I was deeply concerned by statements he and hislawyers made with regard 
to the disposition of his numerous business interests. Mr. Trump's 
lawyers had initially announced thatthe Trump Organization would be 
placed into a ``blind trust'' managed by Donald Trump's older children. 
That arrangement is,unfortunately, by its terms the complete opposite 
of an actual blind trust. An actual blind trust is an arrangement which 
theofficial has no control over, will receive no communications about, 
and will have no knowledge of the identity of the specificassets being 
held, and in which the trust's manager operates independently of the 
owner.
  Around the same time President-elect Trump cancelled his December 
15th announcement, he tweeted another idea for dispositionof his 
businesses, stating that ``[t]wo of my children, Don and Eric, plus 
executives, will manage them. No new deals will bedone during my 
term(s) in office''. Let me be absolutely clear: the arrangement 
tweeted by Mr. Trump is not sufficient and ishardly independent. Mr. 
Trump would be well-aware of the specific assets held, and he could 
receive communications about andtake actions to affect the value of 
those assets. The idea that President-elect Trump's children, who are 
listed as members ofhis transition team and have already been present 
at meetings or phone calls with foreign leaders, can ever be 
truly``independent managers'' is simply not a credible resolution of 
this concern.
  This inadequate suggested arrangement is not a blind trust and will 
not ensure compliance with the Emoluments Clause of theUnited States 
Constitution. Indeed, numerous legal and constitutional experts, 
including Richard Painter, a former adviser toGeorge W. Bush, have made 
clear that such an arrangement will leave the President-elect with a 
personal financial interest inbusinesses that collect foreign 
government payments and benefits. The notion that the American people 
should be satisfied by anunbinding promise that no new deals will 
be pursued--a promise that does notdefine what constitutes a ``deal'' 
and which can be reneged on at any time--does not pass the laugh test.

  I must admit, I have also been quite disturbed and disappointed by 
the recent excuses and suggestions by surrogate speakersand supporters 
of the President-elect as to why no action need be taken and, indeed, 
by statements the President-elect has madehimself. President-elect 
Trump has tweeted, [p]rior to the election it was well known that I 
have interests in properties allover the world.'' This is undoubtedly 
true. But the American people, in voting for a candidate, cannot--and, 
in fact, wouldnot--want to excuse a potential future violation of the 
Constitution by that candidate. Indeed, I would say that President-
electTrump has this idea backwards. Prior to the election, he was well 
aware of the fact that he had interests in unique propertiesall over 
the world. Since the President-elect has referred to himself as ``a 
constitutionalist,'' he must have known of theimportance of complying 
with the Constitution by severing his foreign business connections in 
advance of his inauguration, whichmakes his continued failure and delay 
on this front all the more inexplicable.
  On November 22nd, President-elect Trump stated, ``The law's totally 
on my side, meaning, the president can't have a conflictof interest.'' 
This regrettable statement selectively picks facts and shows a 
troubling disregard for the Constitution and forthe duties owed to the 
American people. While the President, Vice President, Members of 
Congress, and Federal judges may begranted specific, limited exemptions 
from conflicts of interest so that they may act and carry out their 
duties, that law doesnot supersede the Constitution nor, frankly, have 
anything to do with the very specific provisions of the Emoluments 
Clause,which are intended to prevent foreign governmental financial 
influence over the President.
  Even as some of the President-elect's most trusted surrogates have 
acknowledged that the potential ethics challenges facingPresident-elect 
Trump are ``a very real problem,'' they have persisted in arguing that 
Mr. Trump is somehow exempt fromconstitutional strictures, and even 
from the temptation of corruption itself, by virtue of his great 
wealth. For example, formerSpeaker Gingrich has claimed ``that this is 
a new situation we've never seen before, and the rules [that] were 
written forpeople who were dramatically less successful literally do 
not work,'' while Mr. Trump's leading candidate to head 
theadministration's Council of Economic Advisors has claimed that 
``[w]ealthy folks have no need to steal or engage incorruption.'' 
Really? That is a transparently false idea that one does not have to 
look very far to disprove. We need onlyglance at the countries where 
the Trump Organization has done business--places like Russia, 
Azerbaijan, Argentina, and Nigeria--tofind numerous examples of 
already-wealthy government officials who have used their positions to 
lie, cheat, extort, and furtherenrich themselves and their families at 
the expense of the people they are supposed to be serving.
  It was the enduring wisdom of our Founders to recognize that America 
is not magically immune from the corruption problems inother countries, 
and that not all men are angels. This is why we place our trust in the 
Constitution, not in individuals. A manwith more wealth and extensive 
foreign holdings than prior presidents is, by an order of magnitude, 
more vulnerable to foreigncorruption and interference than any 
president before him. The Emoluments Clause has greater bearing on Mr. 
Trump's presidencythan his predecessors, not less.
  No man can gain such wealth and power that he outgrows the limits of 
our Constitution. John Adams said it best: ``We are agovernment of 
laws, and not of men.'' No matter our political or partisan sympathies, 
we all recognize that the Constitution isthe law of the land, and that 
when the needs and ambitions of any man conflicts with the 
Constitution, the Constitution must winout.
  It has also been suggested by some of Donald Trump's supporters that 
the

[[Page S65]]

Emoluments Clause does not actually apply tothe office of the 
Presidency. Not only does this conflict with longstanding understanding 
of the Emoluments Clause in theExecutive Branch, it contravenes both 
the strict interpretation of the plain words of the Constitution, as 
well as thetraditional values and practices adopted by previous 
presidents.
  To get around the ethics challenges facing Mr. Trump, it has been 
suggested by the President-elect's supporters that a panelof five 
``experts'' regularly monitor the Trump Organization businesses and 
tell the President ``don't go over these bounds''.It has even been 
suggested that the President-elect can simply sidestep ethics issues 
that clearly violate the law by pardoningadvisors ``if anyone finds 
them to have behaved against the rules''. These 'ideas' are non-
starters that cut dangerously againstthe plain intent of the Emoluments 
Clause. I am afraid they show a disregard for the values of our 
Constitution.
  The solution to this problem is simple, not complex, and is set forth 
by my resolution: President-elect Trump has only tofollow the 
precedents established by prior presidents and convert his assets to 
simple, conflict-free holdings; adopt blindtrusts managed by truly 
independent trustees with no relationship to Mr. Trump or his 
businesses; or to take other, equivalentmeasures. This solution also 
has the benefit of having been successfully implemented by every modem 
president before Mr. Trump.
  This resolution and its aims should not be viewed through the 
distorting prism of politics. I want the Trump administrationto have 
the support from Congress to succeed on behalf of the American people. 
Nevertheless, I believe that Congress has aninstitutional, 
constitutional obligation to ensure that the President of the United 
States, whoever that person may be, does notviolate our Constitution, 
acts lawfully, and is discharging the obligations of the office based 
on the broad interests of theAmerican people and not his or her own 
narrow, personal interests.
  Despite the late hour--just days before the inauguration--it is still 
possible for President-elect Trump to live up to thevalues of the 
Constitution, give the American people the transparency they deserve, 
and completely sever his relationship withthe Trump Organization before 
he takes the oath of office on January 20, 2017. To do so would avoid a 
constitutional crisis thatwould not serve the best interests of the 
President, Congress, or the American people. Therefore, I ask for 
prompt, bipartisansupport to advance this vital resolution.

                          ____________________



