

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S308-S309]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




               INVESTIGATION ON INTERNET SEX TRAFFICKERS

  Mr. PORTMAN.Mr. President, I rise today during Human Trafficking 
Awareness Week to talk about the scourge of human trafficking, 
and,specifically, about an investigation that the Senate has just 
concluded that matters to every single State represented in thisChamber 
and to every American.
  We are told now that human trafficking, including sex trafficking, is 
a $150 billion a yearindustry. That makes it the second largest 
criminal enterprise in the world, behind the drug trade. Unfortunately, 
it ishappening in all of our States, including my home State of Ohio. 
It is growing as a problem.
  A couple of weeks ago, twopeople were arrested in my home town of 
Cincinnati in connection with sex trafficking. Police charged a women 
with luring anunderage girl to commit a sex act with a 56-year-old man.
  That was just 2 weeks after police in Blue Ash, OH, just up theroad, 
broke up what they said was a sex trafficking ring at a hotel. Police 
said that two men and two women rented two rooms ata hotel, paying 
cash, and forced four different women to perform sex acts. The women 
were given crack cocaine and heroin,presumably to keep them dependent 
on their traffickers.
  This is what I am hearing back home a lot when I talk to victims 
ofsex trafficking. Typically, drugs are involved. In Ohio, it is 
usually heroin. These cases are alarming, and, unfortunately, wehave 
reasons to believe that the problem is getting worse not better. The 
National Center for Missing and Exploited Children,really, the expert 
on this issue, particularly of kids who get involved in sex 
trafficking, reports an 846-percent increase inreports of suspected 
child sex trafficking from 2010 to 2015. That is an over 800-percent 
increase just in those 5 years.
  The organization found this spike to be ``directly correlated to the 
increased use of the Internet to sell children forsex.'' So it is kind 
of the dark side of the Internet, isn't it. What I am told sometimes by 
survivors of trafficking is thatthey say: Rob, this has moved from the 
street corner to the cell phone. There is widespread evidence that sex 
trafficking isincreasingly doing that all over our country.
  In order to confront this problem, as chairman of the Permanent 
Subcommitteeon Investigations, along with my colleague and ranking 
member Senator Claire McCaskill, I opened a bipartisan 
investigationinto sex traffickers and their use of the Internet. This 
investigation began about 2 years ago. The National Center for Missing& 
Exploited Children says that nearly three-quarters--73 percent--of all 
suspected child sex trafficking reports it receives fromthe general 
public through its cyber tip line are linked to one Web site--a single 
Web site. That Web site is calledBackpage.com.
  According to a leading anti-trafficking organization called Shared 
Hope International, ``[s]ervice providersworking with child sex 
trafficking victims have reported that between 80 and 100 percent of 
their clients have been bought andsold on Backpage.com.'' Eighty to 100 
percent of their clients have been bought and sold on Backpage.com.
  Again, that isconsistent with everything I have heard when I have 
been back home and spoken to and met with sex trafficking 
survivors.Backpage now operates in 97 countries, 934 cities worldwide. 
It is valued at well over half a billion dollars. According to 
anindustry analysis, in 2013, 8 out of every 10 dollars spent on online 
commercial sex trafficking in the United States went tothis one Web 
site, Backpage.
  Others, by the way, have chosen not to engage in this. There have 
been a number of cases aroundthe country, including in Ohio, where 
Backpage.com was used by traffickers to sell underage girls for sex.
  Last spring, inmy own State of Ohio, a man, who by the way has nine 
children of his own, was sentenced to 12 years in Federal prison 
fortrafficking four underage girls who had run away from home in Akron 
and Canton, OH. He kept them locked in a hotel, suppliedthem with drugs 
like marijuana, heroin, and ecstasy, and sold them for sex on 
Backpage.com. When he was arrested, by the way, hewas found with more 
than 8,000 bags of heroin.
  Just this week, or a week later after that, a man from Fort Wayne, 
IN, wascharged with human trafficking and child prostitution after he 
was arrested on his way to Ohio. His intention, police say, wasto 
traffic a 14-year-old girl whom he had met on Facebook, raped, and whom 
he planned to sell on Backpage.com.
  Backpage saysit leads the industry in its screening of advertisements 
for illegal activity. In fact, Backpage's top lawyer has describedtheir 
screening process as the key tool for disrupting and eventually ending 
human trafficking via the World Wide Web.
  Butdespite these boasts, this Web site and its owners consistently 
have refused to cooperate with our investigation, with 
otherinvestigations relating to lawsuits around the country. With 
regard to our situation, we subpoenaed them for the documents, andthey 
still refused to provide the documents or to testify. As a result, as 
my colleagues will remember, this body, the Senate,for the first time 
in over 20 years, voted unanimously to pass a civil contempt citation 
to require them to supply thedocuments, to come forward with this 
information.
  In August a Federal court order rejected Backpage's objection to 
thatsubpoena and compelled the company to turn over the subpoenaed 
documents to the subcommittee. Backpage appealed that and askedfor a 
delay in that order. They took it all the way up to the Supreme Court 
of the United States. But their request wasrejected. Since then, the 
subcommittee has been able to review the documents that have 
beensubmitted--over 1 million documents--including emails and other 
internal documents.

  What we found was very troubling, to saythe least. After reviewing 
the documents, the subcommittee published a staff report on Monday of 
this week that conclusivelyshows that Backpage has been more deeply 
complicit in online underage sex trafficking than anyone imagined. We 
reached threeprinciple findings: first, that Backpage has knowingly 
covered up evidence of criminal activity by systematically editing 
itsso-called adult ads; second, that Backpage knows that it facilitates 
prostitution and even child sex trafficking; and third,that despite the 
reported sale of Backpage to an undisclosed foreign company in 2014, 
taking them outside of the United States,the true owners of the company 
are the founders--James Larkin, Michael Lacey, and Carl Ferrer, their 
chief executive officer.
  First, on the editing of ads, our report shows that Backpage has 
knowingly covered up evidence of crimes by systematicallydeleting words 
and images suggestive of illegal conduct, including of child sex 
trafficking. That editing process sanitized thecontent of millions of 
advertisements in order to hide important evidence from law 
enforcement.
  In 2006, Backpage executivesinstructed staff to edit the text of 
adult ads, not to take them down but to edit them, which is exactly how 
they facilitatedthis type of trafficking, including child sex 
trafficking. By October 2010, Backpage executives had a formal process 
in place ofboth manual and automated deletion of incriminating words 
and phrases in ads.
  Backpage CEO Carl Ferrer personally directedhis employees to create 
an electronic filter to delete hundreds of words indicative of sex 
trafficking or prostitution from adsbefore they were published.
  Again, this filter did not reject the ads because of the obvious 
illegal activity. They onlyedited the ads to try to cover it up. The 
filter did not change what was advertised, only the way it was 
advertised. So Backpagedid nothing to try to stop this criminal 
activity. They facilitated it knowingly.
  Why did they do that? Backpage executiveswere afraid they would erode 
their profits. It is a very profitable business. In Ferrer's words, 
they were

[[Page S309]]

afraid theywould ``piss off a lot'' of customers. What terms did they 
delete? Beginning in 2010, Backpage automatically deleted 
wordsincluding ``lolita''--referencing a 12-year-old girl in a book who 
was sold for sex--``teenage,'' ``rape,'' ``young,'' ``littlegirl,'' 
``teen,'' ``fresh,'' ``innocent,'' ``school girl,'' and even ``amber 
alert''--and then published the edited versions ofthe ads on their Web 
site. Backpage also systematically deleted dozens of words related to 
prostitution.
  This filter madethese deletions before anyone at Backpage even looked 
at the ad. When law enforcement officials asked for more information 
aboutthe suspicious ads, as they have routinely done, Backpage had 
already destroyed the original ad posted by the trafficker, andthe 
evidence was gone.
  So this notion that they were trying to help law enforcement is in 
the face of the fact that theyactually destroyed the ads that had the 
evidence. We will never know for sure how many girls and women were 
victimized as aresult. By Backpage's own estimate, the company was 
editing 70 to 80 percent of the ads in the adult section by late 2010.
  Based on our best estimate, that means Backpage was editing more than 
half a million ads every year. Internal emailsindicate the company was 
using the filter to some extent as late as 2014. We simply don't know 
if they are still using a filter.Eventually, Backpage reprogrammed its 
filters to reject some ads that contained certain egregious words 
suggestive of sextrafficking.
  But the company did this by coaching its customers on how to post 
clean ads to help facilitate the criminalconduct of these traffickers. 
So they did reject some ads, but then they went back to the customer to 
say: This is how you coulddo it better. For example, starting in 2012, 
a user advertising sex with a teen would get this error message: 
``Sorry, `teen' isa banned term.''
  With a one-word change to the ad, the user would be permitted to post 
the same ad, the same offer. InOctober 2011, Backpage CEO Carl Ferrer 
directed his technology consultant to create an error message when a 
user entered an ageunder 18 years old. Just like the word filter, the 
customer could just enter a new age that the ad would then post.
  Withregard to ownership, our investigation revealed that acting 
through a serious of domestic and international shell 
companies,Backpage's founders lent their CEO, Carl Ferrer, more than 
$600 million to buy the Web site. While Ferrer is the owner ofBackpage, 
Backpage's previous owners retain near total debt equity in the company 
and continue to reap Backpage's profits in theform of their loan 
repayments.
  They can also exercise control over Backpage's operations and 
financial affairs pursuant tothe loans and to other agreements. The 
elaborate corporate structure under which Ferrer purchased Backpage 
through a series offoreign entities appears to provide absolutely no 
tax benefit--based on their accountant's information to us--and serves 
only toobscure Ferrer's U.S.-based ownership.
  Based on all of these findings, it is clear that Backpage actively 
and knowinglycovered up criminal sexual activity--sex trafficking--that 
was taking place on its Web site, all in order to increase its 
profitsat the expense of the most vulnerable among us.
  Backpage has not denied a word ofthese findings. Instead, several 
hours after our report was issued, the company closed what they call 
their adult section. Theyclosed it down. Frankly, this just validates 
our findings.
  The National Center for Missing & Exploited Children said thisabout 
Backpage's closure of its adult site: ``As a result [of this closure], 
a child is now less likely to be sold for sex onBackpage.com.''
  No one is interested in shutting down legitimate commercial activity 
and speech, but we do want to put astop to criminal activity.
  I want to thank Senator McCaskill and her staff for their shoulder-
to-shoulder work with myteam on the Permanent Subcommittee on 
Investigations on this bipartisan investigation. I am also grateful to 
the members of thefull committee and the Senate as a whole for 
unanimously supporting us as we pursued the enforcement of this 
subpoena againstBackpage.com.
  But we are not done. In the weeks and months ahead, I intend to 
explore whether potential legislative remediesare necessary and 
appropriate to end this type of facilitation of online sex trafficking.
  At a hearing on the report onTuesday, Backpage CEO and other company 
officials pled the Fifth Amendment, invoking the right against self-
incrimination,rather than respond to questions about the report's 
findings.
  The subcommittee also heard powerful testimony from parentswhose 
children had been trafficked on Backpage.com. One mother talked about 
seeing her missing daughter's photograph onBackpage.com, frantically 
calling the company to tell them that was her daughter and to please 
take down the ad.
  Theirresponse: Did you post the ad?
  Her response: Of course I didn't post the ad. That is my daughter. 
Please take it down.
  Their response: We can only take it down if you paid for the ad.
  I urge my colleagues to join me in this effort toensure that does not 
happen again. What happens to these kids is not just tragic; it is 
evil.
  I urge my colleagues to joinme in reforming our laws so they work 
better to protect these children.
  Mr. President, I yield the floor.
  I suggest theabsence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Blunt). The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistantlegislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr.McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDINGOFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



