

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 6 (Tuesday, January 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 6 (Tuesday, January 10, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S204-S205]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mrs. CAPITO:
       S. 76. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
     provide additional new markets tax credits for distressed 
     coal communities; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. FLAKE:
       S. 77. A bill to amend the Agricultural Act of 2014 to 
     repeal the forfeiture rule for peanuts under the nonrecourse 
     marketing assistance loan program; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr. Cassidy, Mr. Carper, Mr. 
             Booker, and Mr. Johnson):
       S. 78. A bill to provide for reimbursement for the use of 
     modern travel services by Federal employees traveling on 
     official Government business, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. KING (for himself, Mr. Risch, Mr. Heinrich, Ms. 
             Collins, and Mr. Crapo):
       S. 79. A bill to provide for the establishment of a pilot 
     program to identify security vulnerabilities of certain 
     entities in the energy sector; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CRAPO (for himself and Mr. Risch):
       S. 80. A bill to protect the right of individuals to bear 
     arms at water resources development projects; to the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and Ms. Collins):
       S. 81. A bill to establish an advisory office within the 
     Bureau of Consumer Protection of the Federal Trade Commission 
     to prevent fraud targeting seniors, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. REED (for himself and Mr. Blumenthal):

[[Page S205]]

  

       S. 82. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
     expand the denial of deduction for certain excessive employee 
     remuneration, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and Mr. Heller):
       S. 83. A bill to authorize the National Science Foundation 
     to support entrepreneurial programs for women; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. McCAIN:
       S. 84. A bill to provide for an exception to a limitation 
     against appointment of persons as Secretary of Defense within 
     seven years of relief from active duty as a regular 
     commissioned officer of the Armed Forces; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mr. ROBERTS (for himself and Ms. Heitkamp):
       S. 85. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
     repeal the amendments made by the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act which disqualify expenses for over-the-
     counter drugs under health savings accounts and health 
     flexible spending arrangements; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. McCAIN (for himself and Mr. Flake):
       S. 86. A bill to amend the Veterans Access, Choice, and 
     Accountability Act of 2014 to modify the termination date for 
     the Veterans Choice Program; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself, Mr. Grassley, Mr. Cruz, Mr. 
             Inhofe, Mr. Cotton, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Perdue, Mr. 
             Boozman, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Wicker, Mr. Blunt, and Mrs. 
             Fischer):
       S. 87. A bill to ensure that State and local law 
     enforcement may cooperate with Federal officials to protect 
     our communities from violent criminals and suspected 
     terrorists who are illegally present in the United States; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. FISCHER (for herself, Mr. Booker, Mr. Gardner, 
             and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 88. A bill to ensure appropriate spectrum planning and 
     interagency coordination to support the Internet of Things; 
     to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mrs. McCASKILL (for herself, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Brown, 
             Mr. Portman, Mr. Cassidy, Mr. Cotton, and Mr. 
             Boozman):
       S. 89. A bill to amend title 46, United States Code, to 
     exempt old vessels that only operate within inland waterways 
     from the fire-retardant materials requirement if the owners 
     of such vessels make annual structural alterations to at 
     least 10 percent of the areas of the vessels that are not 
     constructed of fire-retardant materials and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr. Cruz):
       S. 90. A bill to survey the gradient boundary along the Red 
     River in the States of Oklahoma and Texas, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 91. A bill to amend the Indian Employment, Training and 
     Related Services Demonstration Act of 1992 to facilitate the 
     ability of Indian tribes to integrate the employment, 
     training, and related services from diverse Federal sources, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. McCAIN (for himself and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 92. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic 
     Act to allow for the personal importation of safe and 
     affordable drugs from approved pharmacies in Canada; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mrs. ERNST (for herself, Mr. Gardner, and Mr. 
             Heller):
       S. 93. A bill to allow women greater access to safe and 
     effective contraception; to the Committee on Finance.

                          ____________________



