

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H374-H380]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1900
                      THE PEOPLE'S NIGHT:OBAMACARE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker's announced policy of 
January 3, 2017, the gentleman from North Carolina (Mr.Walker) is 
recognized for 60 minutes as the designee of the majority leader.
  Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, tonight is our third time that we have 
hosted People's Night. This is a time for our Members tobypass outside 
forces and influences and talk directly to the American people.
  Tonight we are presenting something that has been very important, not 
just a topic, but something that nearly 6 years ago--ora little over 6 
years ago--right here where we stand tonight was passed in an overly 
bipartisan manner and has burdened theAmerican people in what is now 
known as ObamaCare, the Affordable Care Act.
  This is a piece of legislation that has burdened small businesses and 
individuals alike. Now we have been asked to fix it,to repeal and to 
replace. Well, it takes Members to be able to have experience in this 
particular field to understand the heartof community. One of the people 
who does that most, specifically in the area of poverty initiatives, 
who reaches acrosscommunity lines, reaches across party lines is the 
gentleman from Kentucky, my good friend, Representative Andy Barr 
fromKentucky. I yield to the gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. Barr).
  Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend, the gentleman from North 
Carolina, for his leadership not only of the RepublicanStudy Committee 
as the new chairman--and I welcome you as the new chairman of the 
Republican Study Committee--but for hisleadership on issues related to 
the importance of repealing this disastrous law that is making life 
harder on the Americanpeople; and not just repealing it, but replacing 
it with policy ideas that put power back in the hands of patients, 
theirfamilies, and their doctors instead of driving up costs, forcing 
people to lose their healthcare plans, forcing the governmentto ration 
health care. We need a better way.
  I am proud to say that we are supporting not just repealing ObamaCare 
here tonight, but bringing to the American people someconstructive, 
positive ideas that will make life easier for them and improve their 
lives through better patient-centered healthcare.
  Mr. Speaker, Kentucky was once portrayed by President Obama, a red 
State, as a model of the implementation of ObamaCare.Yet, every day in 
Kentucky, in my district in central and eastern Kentucky, I hear 
stories from families and small businessesand individuals who have been 
hurt by this disastrous law.
  Now, over the next few weeks, as President-elect Trump comes into 
office and as this Congress revisits the issue ofhealthcare reform, I 
expect we will hear from our friends on the other side of the aisle, 
arguments like ``Don't repealObamaCare. We have 20 million new 
Americans who have insurance.''
  But that statistic needs to be scrutinized because the truth of the 
matter is ObamaCare forced people to lose their healthcare. In many 
cases, and in Kentucky as an example, many of my constituents lost 
high-quality, private, commercial healthinsurance through their 
workplace, and millions of Americans received cancellation notices in 
the mail. Their small employerstold them that they were going to have 
to change their health plans because of this law.
  So not only do we see now skyrocketing costs for those who currently 
have health insurance, but many Americans who ourfriends on the other 
side of the aisle say now are insured or covered, these are folks who 
lost their health insurance before.
  What happened?
  They lost high-quality, job-based health insurance, and so they were 
forced into these exchanges. In Kentucky it was calledKynect. In many 
cases, they went to the cheapest plan available, which happened to be 
Medicaid. Well, my fellow Americans,access to a waiting line is not 
access to health care. Unfortunately, Medicaid is oftentimes access to 
a waiting line, and it isnot access to true health care.
  President Obama's promise that his healthcare law would help people 
has not turned out to be the case. In terms of cost,remember, this is 
called the Affordable Care Act, but it is anything but affordable 
because even though he promised thatpremiums would decline

[[Page H375]]

by $2,500 a year for the average family, premiums have actually 
increased for hardworkingAmericans. Premiums have increased for 11 
million people, according to a report by the Centers for Medicare & 
Medicaid Services.Millions of Americans, as I said before, lost 
previous coverage or had to change doctors due to this disastrous law.
  Take, for example, Laura in my congressional district in Kentucky. 
Laura is a young mother who had a baby girl, Catherine.Catherine was 
diagnosed with a congenital heart defect, ventricular septal defect at 
birth, which is basically a hole in thewall of the heart. They needed 
high-quality pediatric cardiology to help Catherine. So they got a 
specialist at BostonChildren's Hospital. Of course, a long way away 
from Kentucky, but they wanted the best, of course, for their daughter. 
WhenObamaCare went into effect, unfortunately they lost their job-based 
health insurance that allowed them to access thesespecialists up in 
Boston for Catherine. The result was, they lost their doctor.
  What do you think a young mother and a young father are going to do 
in that situation?
  Guess what, they had to find a very expensive policy to cover a 
Boston surgeon out of network out of State, and so theircosts 
skyrocketed.
  This is the kind of thing that was happening to millions of Americans 
as a result of ObamaCare.
  Look, ObamaCare obviously reduced choice and competition. There are 
now only three plans participating in the ObamaCareexchange in 
Kentucky, one of which covers a full 78 percent of the State's 
individual marketplace enrollees. In many Statesthere is only one plan 
on the exchange. This has left too many families with no choice but to 
purchase high-deductible, high-premium coverage. In Kentucky, insurance 
plans have been forced to raise premiums by 23 percent in 2017 alone.

  There is a better way, and the better way is healthcare reform that 
is focused on the patient, not putting bureaucrats incharge, not taking 
away choices, not driving up costs, not creating narrow networks for 
people, not forcing people out of theirhigh-quality private health 
insurance into government-run health care, but, instead, empowering 
patients to access moreaffordable private coverage.
  And one of the ways we can lower the cost of health care, make it 
more affordable for people to access high-quality privatehealth 
insurance, is medical malpractice reform.
  Frivolous lawsuits, junk lawsuits, have driven up the cost of health 
care in this country significantly. One of the fatalflaws of ObamaCare 
is that it never addressed this cost of healthcare inflation.
  Over the course of their careers, it is estimated that 75 percent of 
all physicians will face a malpractice claim. Now, tobe sure, some of 
those cases of medical negligence are legitimate. And, of course, those 
plaintiffs should be able to fullyrecover damages for those cases of 
genuine actual malpractice. But for these frivolous lawsuits, that is 
driving up the cost ofcare. The fact that ObamaCare never even dealt 
with that issue is a fundamental flaw in the previous efforts to reform 
ourhealthcare system.
  So I am a proud cosponsor of the Republican Study Committee's America 
Health Care Reform Act. In the American Health CareReform Act is 
legislation that I introduced with Senator Barrasso called the Saving 
Lives, Saving Costs Act. This doesn'tcap damages for cases of actual 
malpractice, but if there is a frivolous claim, if the liability 
climate is producing frivolouslawsuits, what we say is this: If you are 
a hospital or a doctor or a nurse and you practice in accordance with 
peer reviewed,evidence-based clinical practice guidelines, that there 
should be a higher standard of proof for that plaintiff to get to a 
jurytrial.
  We want a safe harbor for our outstanding medical professionals who 
practice in accordance with the latest state-of-the-artguidelines on 
how to take care of patients.
  So this does two things. Number one, it raises the standard of care. 
We are helping people access better, higher-qualitymedicine in this 
country with this legislation; and we are cutting out frivolous 
lawsuits, this litigation lottery that isdriving up the cost of health 
care for all Americans.
  This is the kind of reform that, if enacted, would replace ObamaCare 
with reforms that would actually lower the cost ofhealth care without 
growing government.
  I applaud the efforts of the Republican Study Committee for offering 
real solutions that will put patients and doctors incharge again and 
not Washington, D.C.
  Mr. WALKER. I thank Representative Barr. Your compassion on this 
topic is certainly evident. We appreciate yourcomments this evening.
  Mr. Speaker, there are a couple of numbers I would like to share that 
puts it a little bit in the context of what we aredealing with here. 
Seventy-five percent of co-ops have failed. In five States, Americans 
are down to just one option. The greatthing about our country's history 
is that we have choices. We have decisions. Yet, since the takeover of 
this administrationover health care, those choices have continued to 
reduce. Sometimes you may hear Congress this or Congress that. One of 
the neatthings about Congress is the amount of people coming from 
diverse backgrounds.
  Our next speaker tonight is Representative Mike Bishop, former senate 
majority leader in his home State of Michigan,who was already working 
on those reforms when he came to the United States Congress.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to my good friend from Michigan (Mr. Bishop).
  Mr. BISHOP of Michigan. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his 
continued leadership and for the opportunity to risetoday to join him 
and this group in this urgent discussion regarding solutions for our 
Nation's healthcare crisis.
  I do appreciate the opportunity to be with my colleagues tonight and 
the sense of urgency that I feel from this group toaddress a very 
important issue.
  Mr. Speaker, since the 2,700-page healthcare law was enacted in 2010, 
when our colleague from across the aisle absurdly roseand declared that 
we would know what was in it as soon as we passed it, young adults, 
families, and seniors have been punishedand their policies canceled.
  We have seen skyrocketing costs, poor coverage and, clearly, a lack 
of choices. I hear from constituents every single daywho say that the 
law has not made health care more affordable, as President Obama 
promised it would.
  Instead, healthcare insurance premiums have skyrocketed and are 
slated to increase again and again andagain--significantly--regardless 
of what Congress is able to do about the law this year. In fact, those 
who currently have a plancan expect an average premium increase of 73 
percent, while individuals who are just joining will see a 96 percent 
increase inpremiums. Job providers are getting smothered as well.
  Prior to joining Congress, I was a member of the private sector, and 
I can tell you firsthand that small businesses arecutting hours. They 
are letting go of workers. All of these things they are doing to make 
room for the ever-expanding healthcarelaw. It is preventing the 
economy--small business, which is the backbone of our economy--from 
growing to its fullest potential.
  For all of these reasons, 8 out of every 10 Americans now favor 
changing ObamaCare significantly or replacing it altogether.What we do 
know is that doing nothing is not an option. Leaving this alone will 
result in further costs, further struggles byour families and small 
businesses, and we will see this whole healthcare law collapse upon 
itself. I do not believe and I don'tthink my colleagues believe here 
today that doing nothing is an option.
  Last year in Michigan, deductibles went up an average of $492 across 
all bronze, silver, and gold plans. This year ourexchange rates will 
jump 17 percent in the State of Michigan. Families have a budget just 
like everybody else and they simplycannot absorb that kind of cost 
increase.
  Complicating matters further, insurers like UnitedHealth Group are 
leaving the exchanges. Private practices are folding anddoctors are 
being forced to retire because they can't financially stay afloat.

                              {time}  1915

  I can tell you, from a personal perspective in my own family, I have 
seen my doctor disappear recently this past year.Seemingly overnight, 
he retired

[[Page H376]]

and moved away because he could not keep up with the costs of staying 
in business as aprivate practitioner.
  I had a rheumatologist in my district. He is a very well-respected 
man who treats many rheumatoid patients in our district.It is a very 
sad fact. These people count on him every single day of the week. They 
have been forced out of his practice becausethey no longer fit into the 
network. He is forced with compliance costs--overwhelming compliance 
costs. He has to hire new peopleto cover the compliance requirements. 
He doesn't have the same reimbursement rates.
  After all is said and done, a private practitioner, a specialist like 
this, can no longer stay in business; and familieslike ours, people 
like you and like me, can no longer continue to have that relationship, 
that doctor-patient relationship, thatvery personal relationship that 
we have had for years. These are real people, doctors, but also 
families and small businesses inour local communities that are 
struggling to stay financially afloat. The end result is we are losing 
good doctors because ofthe failures of ObamaCare.
  Mr. Speaker, when a law has unintended consequences, Congress has an 
obligation to step up and make things right. In 2017,this will require 
a collaborative, bipartisan approach to address the issue. This is 
about finding a pain-free way to moveforward with health care in our 
Nation to ensure our neighbors and our families don't have to struggle 
to make ends meet becauseof failed law.
  We must act, Mr. Speaker. I want to thank Chairman Walker for his 
continued support and his continued leadership onthis important issue.
  Mr. WALKER. I thank Representative Bishop of Michigan.
  One of the numbers my friend just mentioned was 8 out of 10. Nearly 
80 percent, according to Gallup, believe this law shouldbe overhauled 
or completely repealed. So I ask people watching tonight and my friends 
across the aisle: Are we to do nothing? Infact, even in the press 
conference today, President-elect Trump said that, if we did nothing, 
it would continue to fail. But wehave an obligation to stand up and do 
what is right.
  We can't do nothing. People are suffering--in fact, suffering to the 
place that even recently a couple months ago a MinnesotaGovernor was 
honest enough to talk about how it has damaged small business. Goodness 
gracious, even a former DemocraticPresident has acknowledged the 
destruction it has caused for individuals and small businesses.
  No one knows more about what it does to our States than individual 
Representatives. One of the fine gentlemen that isspeaking tonight is 
Representative French Hill. He is one of the sharper minds that we have 
had as part of the 114th classthat I have been privileged to meet and 
serve with for the last 2 years.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. Hill).
  Mr. HILL. I thank the chairman for yielding and for his leadership to 
set aside for us to visit with the American people andtalk about 
empowering patients, not politicians.
  For 6 years, we have witnessed the failed rollout of the ObamaCare 
program. We didn't get to keep our plan that we liked,and we didn't get 
to keep our doctor that we had such a good relationship with. We have 
seen physicians leave the business. Wehave spent billions on 
duplicative, unnecessary exchanges that are now failing across this 
country. So I commend the RepublicanStudy Committee, and I am proud to 
be a part of this group to talk about how to bring relief to the 
American people on thefailed ObamaCare law.
  I still hear from constituents--even now, 6 years later, from this 
rolling evolution of ObamaCare--who have seen theircoverage lost and 
their increases in healthcare costs skyrocket. This healthcare 
regulatory burden that we are talking abouttonight has led to droves of 
part-time jobs instead of full-time jobs and unaffordable group plans 
for the people who were in agood small business group plan. This 
regulatory burden is on top of what has been a 6-year to 8-year 
crushing burden on businessfrom many different agencies from the EPA 
and beyond.
  One constituent wrote my office after he was forced to accept an 
insurance plan to meet the affordable healthcare law thatcost him 
$1,300 a month, Mr. Speaker, and he still has to meet two $2,500 
deductibles before the insurance coverage kicks in.Now, that is $20,600 
a year. Mr. Speaker, I was a small businessman before I joined 
Congress, and we had employees that made$20,600 a year in our small 
business. So what is left for the family budget when you are going to 
spend $20,000 for health care?That is typical now after the rollout of 
ObamaCare for a family of four. This is in a place in our country where 
healthcarecosts $20- or $30,000 a year in out-of-pocket expenses? 
Obviously, this system is broken.
  Now, in Arkansas, unlike much of the country where people are 
definitely seeing large, double-digit, or, in some cases,larger 
increases in the ObamaCare premium, Arkansans, on the exchanges, are 
seeing lower than those average increases. In myview, this is largely 
because our Governor and our State legislature are working hard to make 
the best out of a bad situationand fighting to pursue innovative 
measures that work best for our small State.
  The Arkansas Works program has helped to prevent skyrocketing 
premiums on the exchanges, and the State is still subject,though, to 
duplicative reviews by Federal and State agencies and costly and 
burdensome regulations that have nothing to do withtrying to lower the 
cost of health care for Arkansans.
  This week, Governor Hutchinson wrote the House leadership decrying 
the individual and employer mandates and stressing theneed for 
healthcare reform that provides our States more flexibility--more 
flexibility, Mr. Speaker--todesign programs that fit the needs of 
people in our State while increasing predictability and affordability. 
Some of the pointsGovernor Hutchinson made in his letter to our 
leadership include calling for States having the option of receiving 
Medicaidfunds through a block grant enabling them to tailor the program 
in the Medicaid population under health care in what fitsArkansas, what 
Arkansans can afford. In fact, that is our Better Way approach, Mr. 
Speaker, for the Medicaid population.

  He calls for the elimination of the Federal health insurance 
exchanges. We had exchanges before ObamaCare that can beoperated by 
States in the private sector without Federal interference. Governor 
Hutchinson called for restricting theduplicative reviews of rate and 
plan filings by CMS. They are already being done by our individual 
State insurance regulators.Of course, the thing that drives up costs 
not only for the Medicaid population, for people on the ObamaCare 
exchanges, and forpeople out in the group health plans is the essential 
health benefits requirement.
  Governor Hutchinson says that this has driven up costs for everybody, 
for government, for families, and that elimination ofthese requirements 
would provide flexible options for insurance providers to offer cheaper 
plans to younger and healthierindividuals. That is key to choice, Mr. 
Speaker.
  In some counties, Arkansans now only have one insurance option. I 
don't think one option is an option. There is no choice.This monopoly 
or oligopoly pricing combined with the mandates are demonstrating the 
unaffordability of the Affordable Care Act.
  With the recent election, we now have a unique opportunity to 
recognize these flaws of this one-size-fits-all, BigGovernment-
mandated, top-down approach to health care, reverse course, and, again, 
bring relief to the American people of thisfailed law put forth by the 
Obama administration. Chairman Walker and the Republican Study 
Committee have put together acomprehensive plan to repeal ObamaCare and 
replace this failed law with conservative principles.
  Mr. Speaker, Americans want change. We are asking that we design 
those changes with patients in mind and that we, in fact,in this 
group--Mr. Walker, I know you agree--we will read the bill before we 
pass it.
  So the RSC proposal and the Better Way framework outlined by Speaker 
Ryan are going to bring relief, change, andopportunity that fit with 
the principles that have guided the Republican Party and the Republican 
outlook, the Republican StudyCommittee, which is

[[Page H377]]

we will bring competition and we will bring efforts to lower prices and 
increase access for theAmerican people.
  With that, Mr. Walker, I commend you again.
  Mr. WALKER. If you listened closely there, Representative Hill talked 
about some of the premiums increasing. If youthink back 6, 7, even 8 
years ago, even part of the original campaign talking about the 
Affordable Care Act, this ObamaCare, wethink about three promises--we 
have all heard them--you can keep your doctor, you can keep your 
healthcare plan, and premiums aregoing down. Specifically one that 
stands out more was the premiums going down $2,500.
  My Democratic friends want to ignore some of those numbers, but here 
are the facts: In 2014, premiums increased across theboard 37 percent; 
2015, again, last year, 25 percent. In fact, in some States, it is out 
of sight. In my home State of NorthCarolina, it is 40 percent. But in 
some places, in Arizona, it is as high as 116 percent.
  So the process of working to put this together, the RSC plan and the 
repeal and replace, who better than to have people thathave experience 
in this? There is maybe nobody better in the House who has the 
insurance background than our friend,Representative Austin Scott from 
Georgia's Eighth District.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Austin 
Scott).
  Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, there is something I very 
much want to speak on. I rise today on behalf of my manyconstituents 
back in Georgia's Eighth Congressional District who have been 
negatively impacted by ObamaCare.
  It is pretty clear to the vast majority of us that the attempt to fix 
our Nation's healthcare problems by inserting moreFederal control into 
the system has simply failed. There are some counties in the district 
that I represent in middle and southGeorgia that are down to just one--
maybe two--insurance providers that people can choose from. That is not 
competition, and thatis not affordable. It is not even a choice really, 
and it is certainly not ``if you like your plan you can keep it.''
  My colleagues and I on the Republican Study Committee have worked for 
a couple of years, and we have offered a plan torepeal ObamaCare and 
replace it with patient-centered reforms and free-market solutions for 
American citizens.
  The American Healthcare Reform Act is not just about repealing 
ObamaCare. It is about fixing problems that existed in thehealthcare 
system before ObamaCare and problems that, quite honestly, were made 
worse by ObamaCare. There is a lot of talk aboutwhat is in the bill 
that is a problem. I would like to talk just a second today about what 
is not in the bill that is a problem.
  Mr. Speaker, the President, by leaving the health insurance industry 
exempt from the antitrust laws of the country, createda bigger problem 
than we had prior to the healthcare bill going in place. That's right. 
I want you to hear what I said. UnderObamaCare, health insurance 
providers are exempt from the antitrust laws. These are the very laws 
that are designed to promotecompetition for the benefit of the 
consumer.
  How is it that ObamaCare can mandate that Americans purchase a 
product from an industry that that very bill left exempt fromplaying by 
the rules? Why did the President and the Democratic leaders leave the 
health insurance industry exempt from theantitrust laws in the bill? I 
have asked these questions over and over. It is baffling to me. It 
means the big boys can play andthe little man has to pay.
  I wish somebody from the press would ask that question. I don't 
understand why the press doesn't ask the Democratic Party:Why did you 
leave the health insurance industry exempt from the antitrust laws of 
the country? It is a question the Presidentshould answer.
  The American Healthcare Reform Act reverses that. Our legislation 
injects much-needed competition into the health insurancemarketplace by 
eliminating the antitrust exemptions for the insurance providers. By 
applying the antitrust laws to the insuranceindustry, we are making the 
market more competitive which, in turn, will drive down premium cost, 
increase choice, and does sowithout adding any new taxes.
  I hope the American Healthcare Reform Act will serve as the baseline 
for discussions on how to repeal and replace ObamaCare,bring about 
debate on how to lower healthcare costs, and allow for input from both 
sides of the aisle, which is somethingObamaCare did not do. Along the 
way, Mr. Chairman and Mr. Speaker, I sure do wish the press would ask 
the President and theDemocratic leadership: How could you do that to 
the American citizens?
  Mr. WALKER. Representative Scott, well articulated. I appreciate your 
heart on this.
  Looking at this and tackling this project because of the 2,600 pages 
of complexities, I guess we don't need to reiterate it,but how the 
minority leader said that we needed to pass this law to be able to 
figure out what is in it.

                              {time} 1930

  Obviously, it is more than just a running joke. With the people in 
the background, what does it take to kind of wrap ourminds around it 
and to wrap our arms around it so as to find our way back? It takes 
people with medical experience, and it takespeople with budget 
experience. This is going to be huge.
  One of the Members we have here with us tonight is the vice chair of 
the Committee on the Budget, someone who has greatconcern about the 
damage that this has caused to the fine folks of Indiana, whom he 
represents. It is my privilege to yield tothe Representative from 
Indiana, Todd Rokita.
  Mr. ROKITA. I thank Chairman Walker for organizing the time tonight, 
and I congratulate the gentleman on leading thisorganization. I look 
forward to working with him.
  Mr. Speaker, we could all stand up here and take the barbs that have 
been leveled by some as to how we don't care aboutpeople or how we are 
this or that or how we are just focused on the numbers. Nothing could 
be further from the truth. We couldsit idly by and watch this terrible, 
insidious law continue to implode, to continue to hurt more and more 
Americans--insidiousbecause it is built on lies, like you can keep your 
doctor if you want to, like you can keep your health plan if you want 
to--nottrue in any case. Instead, we are here tonight, talking with the 
American people about ``what could be'' when we first get ridof this 
terrible law--something that many of us have voted on 60 times or more 
to do. We now have a real opportunity with notonly a Republican House, 
but a Republican Senate, and with a President who is willing to work 
with us.
  The verdict is in. In Indiana alone and in my district, I have met 
person after person who has horror stories about thefailure of 
ObamaCare.
  I spoke with Anna, whose husband, Jack, survived stage IV cancer. 
With Jack's cancer only having a 30 percent survival rate,it is crucial 
that he has effective doctors who know how to treat and how to work the 
problem. Instead, Anna's doctor quitpracticing medicine--well before 
his planned retirement age--due to the burdensome costs of ObamaCare, 
which is something that thegentleman from Georgia also mentioned.
  It is not just doctors who are unable to perform their duties--their 
profession--under this insidious law, but also insurancecompanies that 
are withdrawing from the market as we speak. Last year alone, we saw 
Indiana's exchange lose 50 percent of itshealth insurance carriers due 
to regulations of ObamaCare. This included IU Health, which covered 
almost 30,000 Hoosiers. Thislack of options means that healthy Hoosiers 
are being forced to pay for coverage that they don't want, that they 
don't need, andthat, in fact, may do more harm than good.
  I spoke with Mark from Tippecanoe County, in my district, who talked 
about the harmful impact of ObamaCare. He stated thathe was forced to 
buy insurance with only four doctors listed as providers for the entire 
county. What good does this insurancedo Mark or the rest of us if he 
can't even use it and schedule an appointment?
  I am very proud to have worked on this Republican Study Committee 
with the Health Care Task Force, led by my good friend,Dr. Phil Roe of 
Tennessee. Over a period of a year or so, we have

[[Page H378]]

put together a plan that is a very real, patient-centered, consumer-
focused, free market-driven replacement for ObamaCare, but with one big 
difference--our plan would workbecause it harnesses the value that we 
all have innately as Americans and, really, as humans, which is the 
ability to valueprice once we have the information.
  If I left this Chamber and, God forbid, I broke my leg on my way down 
the steps, I wouldn't worry too much about where I wasgoing--just to 
the nearest emergency room. But that is not most of our healthcare 
transactions; that is not most of ourhealthcare decisions. Most of our 
healthcare decisions can be made by attaching value to the services and 
products that we want.We do it in every other part of our consumer-
driven life. Why can't we finally do it with health care? That is what 
people likeDr. Phil Roe have practiced in medicine their entire lives. 
That is what he has taught me. That is what we know as 
Americanconsumers. Why can't we be trusted to do that with our health 
care?
  Whether the intent is malicious, whether the intent is malign, the 
intent of the people who support ObamaCare--that insidiouslaw--is 
wrong. It says: just give your life over to these few people, and let 
them run it for a while, and everything will befine. Unfortunately, 
throughout not only American history, every time it has been tried here 
and every time it has been tried inworld history, it has failed. 
Control over the individual has failed, and it will do the same, as we 
are seeing every day now,with regard to our health care.
  Let's repeal this insidious law, and let's get back on the track of 
replacing it with something that we all can trust,beginning with 
ourselves.
  I thank the chairman for his leadership.
  Mr. WALKER. I thank Representative Rokita.
  Mr. Speaker, as I was sitting here, I just received a text from a 
volunteer fire department official right outside ofCharlotte, North 
Carolina. He writes that they were watching the proceedings this 
evening:

       I justwant to let you know that even my drug prescription 
     has gone up $200 out of pocket per person.

  He has three daughters in his family.
  Think about this. This is real-life stuff. That is why we are 
stepping in. Part of our plan in the repeal andreplacement--the 
American Health Care Reform Act--allows you to have immediate access to 
your health savings account. You wouldnot have to worry about 
somebody's needing a prescription or somebody's needing medicine--one 
of the children--and, every time, itis $200 out of pocket. That is why 
it is important to move--and to move with diligence.
  Someone who knows a little bit about the healthcare industry is my 
friend Dr. Brian Babin of Texas, who has beendealing with this in his 
own dentist's practice. He is a former veteran and is someonewho cares 
about his district but who cares about all Americans. It is my 
privilege to yield to my friend from the great State ofTexas, the Lone 
Star State, Dr. Brian Babin.

  Mr. BABIN. I thank the gentleman from North Carolina, my good friend 
and RSC chairman, Mark Walker, for this SpecialOrder opportunity 
tonight.
  Mr. Speaker, Americans are hurting right now with their health care. 
ObamaCare supporters are quick to point out someAmericans who have 
actually been helped by ObamaCare. After spending over $1 trillion of 
borrowed money, I would certainly hopethat there are at least some 
people who have been helped by this terrible law that was forced on us 
over 6 years ago by theDemocrats and without one single Republican 
vote.
  Thousands of my constituents are demanding to be rescued from 
ObamaCare. They have shared their individual stories with meabout how 
it has hurt them--higher premiums, excessive deductibles--how it has 
disrupted cancer treatments, forced them to changedoctors, and how it 
has even cost many their jobs.
  Here is what real people are saying--my constituents. This is what 
they are telling me:
  A young couple with three children, living in Tyler County, Texas, 
shared how their premiums have gone up year after year.They began with 
a $900 monthly premium and with a $2,500 deductible. The very next 
year, the premium went to $1,100, and thedeductible went up to $5,000. 
Then, in 2015, they were forced from a PPO into an HMO at $1,000 a 
month with a $6,600 deductible.These are individual deductibles. That 
is $33,000, plus the $12,000-per-year premium. That is an extraordinary 
burden on a youngfamily. This family tells me about their problem every 
time they see me, and they see me a lot because this is my daughter 
andmy son-in-law and my three grandchildren.
  Gale in Deer Park, Texas, and Alisa from Crosby, Texas, wrote to tell 
me how their ObamaCare mandates have forced theiremployers to cut their 
work hours. They are losing hundreds of dollars in income each and 
every month. This 30-hour mandatemeans that this college student has 
lost out on hundreds of dollars in pay that she could have earned over 
the recent Christmasbreak.
  Tim in Baytown, along with several others, wrote to share with me 
that it cost him his job. Paul from Harris County andFrank in Jasper 
shared how they have been significantly experiencing higher costs and a 
decrease in coverage. Roy in Pasadenasays that his deductible is now 
over $12,000. Ben and Carol, like thousands of others in southeast 
Texas, have had theirhealthcare plans canceled.
  This calamitous unaffordability and poor coverage have inundated 
folks everywhere, like Linda in Vidor, who have to choosebetween their 
medications and food; like folks in El Lago--David and Sheryl--and 
Brian in Houston. It continues to tragicallyaffect folks every single 
day. Sharell from Jasper County has faced a doubling of her premiums, 
and Carol in Baytown shared howshe has seen substantial increases in 
her premiums and her deductibles.
  Retirees who have worked their entire lives, like Jack from Orange 
and Glenda from Hardin County, wrote to tell me how theyare finding it 
difficult to afford their healthcare costs. Let's not forget that 
ObamaCare cut hundreds of billions of dollarsand services from 
Medicare, hurting the elderly.
  Many who are sick have reached out to me, such as Randal of Harris 
County, who had their medical treatments disrupted byObamaCare. I hear 
all the time the firsthand accounts of hardworking folks who are at 
their wits' end under this monstrosity.
  I am voting to repeal ObamaCare in order to provide relief to Brian, 
Brad, LaLa, Gale, Alisa, Abby, Tim, Paul, Frank, Roy,Linda, David, 
Sheryl, Brian, Sharell, Carol, Jack, Glenda, Randal, and the tens of 
thousands more Texans just like them.
  Perhaps Paul in Deer Park sums it up the best:

       It made it worse for me. It increased thecosts, and it 
     decreased my coverage.

  That is the story I have heard for 6 long years, and it is why this 
failed program must be repealed and replaced with a planthat restores 
healthcare freedom to all Americans--health plans that are affordable 
and that meet their families' needs--a planthat they choose, not the 
Federal Government. Americans need relief now.
  Mr. WALKER. I thank Dr. Babin. I appreciate that spirited, heartfelt 
talk. In my previous vocation, we would usuallycall for an invitation 
at about this time.
  Mr. Speaker, this is not just a problem in red States; this is a 
problem in blue States, like it is with my good friend fromthe First 
District of California, Representative Doug LaMalfa, to whom I yield as 
he shares a little bit of his heart whenit comes to ObamaCare and the 
repeal.
  Mr. LaMALFA. I really want to thank Chairman Walker of the RSC, the 
Republican Study Committee. I greatlyappreciate the gentleman's 
leadership on this event here tonight as well as the great job the 
gentleman is doing on theCommittee.
  Mr. Speaker, we have had alternatives to the Affordable Care Act ever 
since I have been here. The American Health CareReform Act, as put 
forward by the Republican Study Committee, has many of the elements we 
have all been talking about forseveral years: with the Affordable Care 
Act being forced upon Americans not in a bipartisan effort but strictly 
by the votes ofone party when they had the majority--the ability--to 
force it

[[Page H379]]

through. We are suffering the effects of that now.
  One of my colleagues earlier was talking about: Why isn't this being 
reported? Why isn't this being talked about in thebroad sense of how it 
is really affecting the Americans who are paying for it?
  People in my district, ever since I have been a Member of this House, 
have been pleading with us to do something about thesehigh premiums, 
about the high deductibles, about the lack of access they have, 
especially in rural areas. Why are the proponentscontinuing to prop 
this up? It is clear that it doesn't work: higher costs, fewer options, 
unworkable plans. The exchanges--wehave watched in several States--most 
of them, after billions in investment, are shuttering; they are closing 
up shop. Where dothose billions go that we have invested as a country 
into these exchanges?

                              {time}  1945

  But on a patient level, it is putting even more of our most 
vulnerable patients on a system already known to beunsustainable 
without even ensuring access to quality care. In some cases, no care at 
all.
  How are people defining that as a success?
  We know that the main reason why so many people are uninsured is the 
high cost of coverage. But instead of investing vastamounts of money to 
bring more people into a broken system, let's take this opportunity to 
start fixing the root of the problem.
  One, this is done by increasing competition, giving patients more 
options, choices. Mr. Speaker, give them a menu of optionsthey can pick 
themselves, tailor the plan to what they need. A 20-year-old young man 
has a completely different need than a 30-year-old mom and her family. 
Let them have the choices.
  Also, let's get rid of the costly mandates, the taxes. There are 
taxes on everything, it seems, to help prop up ObamaCare,the Affordable 
Care Act, including the cost for students for college. They are paying 
for some of that.
  Then let's build off successes that we have seen in the past and that 
are part of the proposal of the Republican StudyCommittee and the 
American Healthcare Reform Act. That could help fill our gaps in the 
healthcare delivery system.
  Community health centers, for example, is a model that is both cost 
effective and efficient in expanding access to careservices in 
underserved areas, very rural ones, such as my own district at home.
  Healthcare reform affects the lives of every single person in this 
country, which is why it is high time that we put thehealth and well-
being of the American people ahead of partisan politics and legacies.
  Let's get to work and deliver actual solutions that empower patients, 
drive down the costs, and increase access to care inevery part of the 
country. Let's give back to Americans: ``Keep your plan that you like, 
keep your doctor that you like.''
  So it is time to stop the partisan squabbling over it and the 
deception that has gone on for what is indeed for some a badlegacy of 
the American people.
  Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Florida (Mr. 
Yoho), our resident veterinarian in the House.
  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. 
Walker) for hosting this Special Order. TheAmerican people have spoken, 
and it is time. The ACA, the Affordable Care Act--which it is not, and 
we know that.
  I want to take you back, a little history here. Back prior to 2009, 
before the Affordable Care Act came out, 85 percent ofthe people in 
America had health insurance either through their employer or on their 
own. Fifteen percent did not have healthinsurance.
  Yet, Congress, in their infinite wisdom, instead of fixing it for the 
15 percent and getting them into the pool of peoplethat had health 
insurance, said: No; we are going to change it. We are going to change 
it and disrupt the whole healthcaremarket and 20 percent of our 
economy.
  This is the epitome of legislative malpractice. This Congress was 
controlled by one party, the Democratic Party, through theHouse, the 
Senate, and the executive branch. They passed a 2,900-page bill at the 
end of the year that nobody read. You can't dothat in any other 
business without going to jail.
  President Obama sold us a bill of goods on a lie. If you want to keep 
your doctor or your insurance, you can and your pricewill go down 
$2,500.
  Let me share three real-life stories. One was a 54-year-old man that 
came into our office, single, making a six-figureincome, could afford 
insurance. He was going through the exchange. He changed his plan and 
wanted to pay for it right then. Theysaid: Don't worry about it, we 
will send you a bill. They never sent him a bill, and his insurance got 
canceled. He could notbuy insurance because it was through the exchange 
and the sign-up period had expired. He got fined whatever the fine was. 
He gotfined trying to do the right thing.
  Another one is a friend of mine who owns a restaurant franchise. He 
has 500 employees. He says: I can't afford to pay forthe health 
insurance. So he moved people from working 32 or 40 hours a week down 
to 26 hours.
  I could tell you a real personal story about a couple I know real 
well. They came to Congress. Their policy got canceled.Their premiums 
went up by over $11,000. Their deductibles went up and their coverage 
went down. I know that couple real wellbecause it is my wife and 
myself.
  The American people have spoken and given us the majority for a 
reason, and that is to fix health care and allow the besthealthcare 
providers, the best medicine, the best research and the institutions in 
America to provide that for all Americans anddeliver that care to all 
Americans.
  The Republican Congress has a better way, and it starts with putting 
health care back into the hands of the physicians tothe patients. It 
has a better way increasing access, the cure, the quality at a lower 
cost with a stable transition so no one isleft out. And it starts with 
the repeal of ObamaCare.
  I appreciate Chairman Walker doing this. This is a message we are 
going to drive home and home and home. We are goingto fix this, and the 
American people will be better off and our economy will be better off.
  Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, we talk about numbers. Twenty-five percent 
of all Americans have been damaged at some point underthis Affordable 
Care Act. We cannot look the other way.
  One gentleman who doesn't look the other way but stands up and speaks 
the truth is Representative Pete Olson.
  I yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Olson).
  Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, my friend knows the American people spoke on 
November 8th. They gave our party control of the entireCongress and the 
White House because of the job-killing, promise-breaking law known 
as ObamaCare.

  This was a repeal mission for almost 7 years, but now it has become a 
rescue mission. It is to rescue Americans like Andreafrom my home in 
Texas in the 22nd Congressional District.
  She wrote me this letter last week:
  ``I'm a 42 year-old legally blind single parent in Sugar Land, self-
employed working very hard to rear two great kids ages15 and 13. I have 
a master's degree in education and work extremely hard to provide a 
stable, comfortable life for the kids. Indoing so, I have invested time 
and money into my own healthcare because the kids need me to be 
healthy.
  ``I lost my right eye a few years ago to complications from ROP (too 
much oxygen at birth) and my left eye is severelyimpaired with 
potential for complications that would need immediate specialized care.
  ``I have different specialist doctors for different issues related to 
each eye. Additionally, I am a kidney cancer survivor(RCC) which also 
requires specialist follow-up. For those reasons, and others, I've 
spent time and effort getting drivers totake me to specialists to 
develop rapport, trust, and history with specific physicians.
  ``They are the best doctors in their respected fields, and my trust 
in them is important with this type of care.
  ``I don't have the PPO option now for my healthcare in 2016 through 
the ACA. The HMO's and EPO's being offered are not beingaccepted by my 
doctors.
  `` . . . among the needs of many others in similar situations as my 
own,

[[Page H380]]

my remaining eyesight and renal functionshould never be less important 
than anything in politics. And while I know that there are many, many 
people in this same boat,for today, while I write this letter, it's 
about my kids getting to keep their mom and about me keeping the 
ability to see themgrow up.
  ``I write because it needs to be said and needs to be heard and needs 
to be ACTED on.
  `` . . . in the past I've paid a lot and had my share of insurance 
issues, but at least I could choose my own doctor. Atleast in crisis 
(which I've had) I went straight to the doctor who knew me and my 
history and they could resolve it without areferral and delay after 
delay after delay.
  ``HMO might work for some, but not for those who don't want one.
  ``I'm not asking for a hand-out. I am asking for reasonable choice of 
a basic PPO for which I have paid for in past and amasking to have the 
option to pay for now. I'm not writing just to vent--I'm asking for 
some kind of solution to this train wreckof healthcare options or lack 
thereof.
  ``If President Obama thinks this is actually working, he's more blind 
than me.''
  Andrea, we have a plan to help you up. It is called A Better Way. How 
about this: Allow coverage across state lines, expandopportunities for 
pooling, make coverage portable, Medicare laws reformed, and 
preexisting condition protections.
  That is a better way. That is what the American people deserve. We 
will keep fighting for Andrea and people like her.
  Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, who better to close out our Special Order 
than a gentleman, a doctor who has employed hundreds ofpeople and has 
worked with thousands of patients?
  You may have heard the false narrative that, yes, we have contributed 
in breaking the program, from the Democrat'sperspective, and you guys 
need to fix it, but you don't have a plan.
  Well, that is a false narrative and here to tell you why is Dr. Phil 
Roe.
  I yield to the gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. Roe).
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I stand here in the well of the 
House tonight remembering 8 years ago when I stood here.I am the only 
one, other than Pete Olson, that was here that has spoken tonight.
  I actually left my medical practice of 31 years. I have been a 
physician--it is hard to believe--46 years. I ran for Congressbecause I 
wanted to be involved in the healthcare debate. I realize that the 
American people needed healthcare reform.
  One of the most disappointing things I have had since I have been in 
the U.S. Congress was, when I showed up here, I naivelythought that 
people cared what I thought. I found out I was wrong about that.
  We had nine physicians in the Doctors Caucus on the Republican side 
in 2009, and not one of us was asked one thing aboutthat healthcare 
bill. Not one Republican amendment to that bill that would have made it 
better was ruled in order.
  So it was passed on one-party rule, and now the Democrat party owns 
it. Unfortunately, patients own it. And that is what Icame here to do, 
was to try to help people.
  I had spent 31 years of my life in the small town of Johnson City, 
Tennessee, practicing medicine and trying to do a goodjob for patients 
that I saw every single day.
  You have heard it many times before: If you liked your doctor, you 
can keep it. We are going to reduce your premiums by$2,500.
  The President also said that I will go over this bill line by line 
with anyone who wants to. We asked to do that on multipleoccasions, and 
I am still waiting for my cell phone to ring.
  So we have heard over and over and over again that the Republicans 
have no ideas. Two Congresses ago we were challenged andasked to write 
a Republican alternative to the Affordable Care Act, and we did just 
that.
  I want to show you out there tonight--those of you who are watching--
this is the bill right here. It is a 184-page bill. Youcan read it in 
an hour or so or less than that.
  I read the entire Affordable Care Act. I felt like I should. I didn't 
pass it and see what was in it. I actually read itahead of time.
  We had healthcare reform in Tennessee in the nineties called 
TennCare. I wrote theepitaph on this bill with Marsha Blackburn in 
2010, if anyone is interested in reading that.

  So what did we do with this bill?
  With the Affordable Care Act, the Federal Government said: You will 
purchase 10 essential health benefits or your insuranceis no good. You 
have to get rid of it.
  And this 10 essential health benefits cost, in many cases, is a lot 
of money.
  Then what do we do?
  We passed a tax, a mandate, a fine, a penalty, whatever Judge Roberts 
decided he wanted to decide that it was, or define it,I should say. But 
here we are passing a mandate for people to purchase something they 
can't afford. I find that astonishing thatyou tax people for something 
they cannot buy.
  So what our bill did was repeal the Affordable Care Act. It then 
massively expanded health savings accounts. Look, there areIndian 
tribes out there that use the Indian Health Service that can't have an 
HSA. There are disabled veterans that can't havean HSA. There are 
retired people that can't have HSAs. We expanded that. I have used them 
in my own practice for patients. I useone myself.
  We used high-risk pools, and we expanded ERISA benefits to help 
offset preexisting conditions. Quite frankly, I think in twoparagraphs 
I could have done two-thirds of what the Affordable Care Act did, which 
is expand Medicaid, which is a system thatneeds to be reformed, and 
allowed 26-year-olds to stay on their parents healthcare plan.

                              {time}  2000

  We also allow you to buy across State lines with association health 
plans, malpractice reforms, and transparency. It is avery simple, 
patient-centered bill. We have said this before, our bill is open for 
amendment. If a Democrat has a good idea, Iam open to listen to it. The 
main thing is I want patients and doctors to be in charge of their 
healthcare decisions.
  Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity to be here tonight, and I 
look forward to going into much more detail about thedetails of this 
particular bill.
  Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, the bottom line to the American people is 
this: it is time to return healthcare choices to theAmerican people.
  God bless and good night.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



