

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 18 (Thursday, February 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 18 (Thursday, February 2, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H932-H933]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        OPPOSITION TO MUSLIM BAN

  (Ms. JAYAPAL asked and was given permission to address the House for 
1 minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
  Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, I want to just conclude our earlier Special 
Order where many of my colleagues spoke out in strong opposition to the 
Muslim ban that was just signed by President Trump.
  I would like to read a short paragraph from the letter that we have 
now

[[Page H933]]

submitted to Secretary Kelly. It has been signed by over 110 of my 
colleagues in the House. It requests that we have an immediate 
emergency meeting and briefing. I include in the Record the entire 
letter, and I will just read a short portion.
  ``The Executive Order is both controversial and confusing. For 
example, the International Rescue Committee called the Order `harmful 
and hasty' noting `America has the strongest, most successful 
resettlement program in the world.' Over 4,000 academics, including 25 
Nobel Laureates, have signed a petition denouncing the Order, writing 
`this measure is fatally disruptive to the lives of these immigrants, 
their families, and the communities of which they form an integral 
part. It is inhumane, ineffective, and un-American.' ''

                                     House of Representatives,

                                 Washington, DC, February 1, 2017.
     Hon. John F. Kelly,
     Secretary of Homeland Security, Department of Homeland 
         Security, Washington, DC.
       Secretary Kelly: We write to strongly condemn the 
     President's executive order issued January 27, 2017, titled 
     ``Protecting the Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry into the 
     United States,'' and the ensuing actions taken by the U.S. 
     Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and its agencies, in 
     particular Customs and Border Protection (CBP), to implement 
     the order, and to request an urgent briefing regarding the 
     same. We hope you will urge the President to immediately 
     rescind the Executive Order, which has created profound chaos 
     and fear among refugees and immigrants who have been admitted 
     to the United States, as well as their families. As a nation 
     of immigrants that has been a refuge for people fleeing 
     persecution from around the world, these actions are contrary 
     to who we are as a nation.
       We understand that you met yesterday at 4:30 PM with Chairs 
     and Ranking Members of relevant Committees to discuss 
     ``recent executive actions.'' You should understand that such 
     a time limited meeting with a subset of Members and Senators 
     in no way obviates the need for the briefing we are 
     requesting for all Members. Such full Member briefings are a 
     frequent occurrence on Capitol Hill after important events 
     such as the issuance of the January 27 Executive Order. They 
     allow all Members to benefit from the knowledge and 
     experiences of the executive branch so that we may be well 
     informed in our legislative and oversight affairs and serve 
     our constituents best. The full Member briefing regarding the 
     Executive Order is particularly needed given the unsettling 
     events of last evening--the abrupt firing of Acting Attorney 
     General Sally Yates and the termination without explanation 
     of Daniel Ragsdale as acting Director of Immigration and 
     Customs Enforcement (ICE). The need to brief the full 
     Democratic.Caucus is also necessary as we now understand that 
     guidance concerning the January 27 Executive Order has been 
     provided to Members of the Republican Conference, but not the 
     Democratic Caucus. According to yesterday's Washington Post, 
     ``substantive guidance [concerning the Executive Order was 
     given] to congressional Republicans . . . late Saturday. . . 
     . In a two-page memo that offered some details on the policy 
     . . .''.
       The Executive Order harms our families, economy, and 
     national security. Over the weekend, individuals--some of 
     whom have been lawful permanent residents for decades--were 
     found stranded outside the United States, leaving families in 
     turmoil. Technology companies, including industry leaders 
     like Microsoft, Google, and Apple, report that the Executive 
     Order could directly impact their employees and hinder their 
     ability to attract the best talent from around the world. In 
     addition, the policy reflected in the Executive Order is 
     counterproductive to our national security. We understand 
     that scores of American diplomats stationed across the globe 
     are drafting a formal ``dissent memo'' to register their 
     objections, stating that the order will ``not achieve its aim 
     of making our country safer'' and will instead result in a 
     ``drop in international good will towards Americans and a 
     threat to our economy.'' We need to develop relationships 
     with Muslim countries and others seeking to combat terrorism. 
     Unfortunately, the Order alienates many of the groups we need 
     to have working alongside us.
       The Executive Order is both controversial and confusing. 
     For example, the International Rescue Committee called the 
     Order ``harmful and hasty'' noting ``America has the 
     strongest, most successful resettlement program in the 
     world.'' Over 4,000 academics, including 25 Nobel Laureates, 
     have signed a petition denouncing the Order, writing ``[t]his 
     measure is fatally disruptive to the lives of these 
     immigrants, their families, and the communities of which they 
     form an integral part. It is inhumane, ineffective, and un-
     American.'' The Order has resulted in widespread confusion, 
     as hundreds of individuals have been improperly detained at 
     our airports, at least four federal courts have issued stays 
     concerning the Order, and protests have broken out at 
     airports and other venues nationwide. At the time this letter 
     was sent, 16 State Attorneys General have condemned the 
     Executive Order.
       In the interest of exercising proper Congressional 
     oversight of DHS and CBP and of holding agencies accountable, 
     we write to urgently request an emergency briefing this week 
     with you and others at DHS and the Administration concerning 
     the Executive Order. Among other things, we would like to 
     receive the following, either at or in advance of the 
     briefing:
       Any DHS guidance, directive, or policy regarding 
     interpretation and implementation of the Executive Order, 
     specifically is it pertains to current visa holders seeking 
     entry into the United States, visa applicants, lawful 
     permanent residents, dual citizens, and U.S. citizens, as 
     well as clarification on the status of the individuals from 
     the seven designated countries in the Order who are applying 
     for or renewing immigration benefits.
       Details on individuals who have been prevented from 
     entering the country, including the airport at which they 
     arrived, location of detention, number provided with 
     interpretation services, number who have been released broken 
     down by airport, number of individuals who were sent back 
     broken down by nationality, and a breakdown of the 
     immigration status of those being detained and those who were 
     sent back.
       The manner in which DHS is complying with the various 
     court-issued stays of removal, including the number of 
     individuals who have been provided access to counsel.
       What, if, any accommodations are being considered for 
     interpreters and translators from the seven designated 
     nations who have worked with our military and intelligence, 
     as well as notable academics coming to do research in the 
     U.S.
       The manner in which the exceptions to the Executive Order's 
     application with respect to ``religious minorities'' will be 
     applied, particularly given Mr. Trump's series of statements 
     concerning his preference for Christian refugees.
       In addition, and among other things, we would like to be 
     briefed by you on the accuracy of President Trump's assertion 
     that the Executive Order can be justified because then-
     president Obama had ``banned visas for refugees from Iraq for 
     six months'' in 2011. It is our understanding that in 2011 
     the Iraqi resettlement program was subject to a simple 
     reduction for a short time while new security measures were 
     added, In stark contrast, Mr. Trump's Executive Order calls 
     for a suspension of all refugees, not just one category, in 
     addition to suspending the Syrian program indefinitely.
       For decades both Democratic and Republican Presidents have 
     supported granting safe haven to families fleeing 
     persecution, violence, terror, sexual slavery, and torture. 
     At a time of unprecedented forced migration across the world, 
     the need for American leadership in these areas has not 
     subsided.
       Given the urgency, widespread confusion and dangerous 
     impact of the Executive Order, we would appreciate hearing 
     from you as quickly as possible so that we may ensure the 
     briefing occurs by no later than Friday, February 3. The 
     lives and well-being of many individuals, as well as our 
     ability to partner with foreign governments to fight 
     terrorism, depends on it.
            Sincerely,
     John Conyers, Jr.
       Member of Congress.
     Zoe Lofgren,
       Member of Congress.
     Pramila Jayapal,
       Member of Congress.
       (And an additional 111 Members of Congress.)

                          ____________________



