

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 1 (Tuesday, January 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 1 (Tuesday, January 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S21]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. HELLER (for himself, Mr. Cruz, Mr. Rubio, Mr. 
             Cotton, and Mr. Inhofe):
       S. 11. A bill to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of 
     Israel, to relocate to Jerusalem the United States Embassy in 
     Israel, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations.
           By Mr. MORAN (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, and Mr. 
             Bennet):
       S. 12. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the accountability of employees of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Ms. Baldwin, Ms. 
             Warren, and Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 13. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
     prevent high net worth individuals from receiving tax 
     windfalls for entering government service; to the Committee 
     on Finance.
           By Mr. HELLER (for himself, Mr. Manchin, and Mr. 
             Barrasso):
       S. 14. A bill to provide that Members of Congress may not 
     receive pay after October 1 of any fiscal year in which 
     Congress has not approved a concurrent resolution on the 
     budget and passed the regular appropriations bills; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. HELLER:
       S. 15. A bill to impose sanctions with respect to the 
     ballistic missile program of Iran, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. PAUL (for himself, Mr. Barrasso, Mr. Blunt, Mr. 
             Gardner, Mr. Grassley, Mr. Heller, Mr. Lee, Mr. 
             Portman, and Mr. Risch):
       S. 16. A bill to require a full audit of the Board of 
     Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal 
     reserve banks by the Comptroller General of the United 
     States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, 
     Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. SASSE (for himself and Mr. Tester):
       S. 17. A bill to ensure the Government Accountability 
     Office has adequate access to information; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. MORAN (for himself and Mr. Perdue):
       S. 18. A bill to promote freedom, fairness, and economic 
     opportunity by repealing the income tax and other taxes, 
     abolishing the Internal Revenue Service, and enacting a 
     national sales tax to be administered primarily by the 
     States; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. THUNE (for himself and Mr. Nelson):
       S. 19. A bill to provide opportunities for broadband 
     investment, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. VAN HOLLEN:
       S. 20. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
     expand the denial of deduction for certain excessive employee 
     remuneration; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself and Mr. Donnelly):
       S.J. Res. 1. A joint resolution approving the location of a 
     memorial to commemorate and honor the members of the Armed 
     Forces who served on active duty in support of Operation 
     Desert Storm or Operation Desert Shield; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mrs. Fischer, Mr. Johnson, 
             Mr. Tillis, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Lee, and Mr. Perdue):
       S.J. Res. 2. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States relative to limiting 
     the number of terms that a Member of Congress may serve; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



