

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 19 (Friday, February 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 19 (Friday, February 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H969-H974]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     PUBLICATION OF COMMITTEE RULES


  rules of the committee on transportation and infrastructure for the 
                             115th congress

         Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, House of 
           Representatives,
                                 Washington, DC, February 2, 2017.
     Hon. Paul D. Ryan,
     Speaker, House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Speaker: Pursuant to clause 2(a) of rule XI of the 
     Rules of the House of Representatives and clause (b) of rule 
     I of the Rules of the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, I submit the Rules of the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure for the 115th Congress for 
     publication in the Congressional Record. On January 31, 2017, 
     the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure met in 
     open session and adopted these Committee Rules by voice vote 
     with a quorum present.
           Sincerely,
                                                     Bill Shuster,
                                                         Chairman.

[[Page H970]]

  



                       rule i. general provisions

       (a) Applicability of House Rules.--
       (1) In general.--The Rules of the House are the rules of 
     the Committee and its subcommittees so far as applicable, 
     except that a motion to recess from day to day, and a motion 
     to dispense with the first reading (in full) of a bill or 
     resolution, if printed copies are available, are non-
     debatable privileged motions in the Committee and its 
     subcommittees.
       (2) Subcommittees.--Each subcommittee is part of the 
     Committee, and is subject to the authority and direction of 
     the Committee and its rules so far as applicable.
       (3) Incorporation of house rule on committee procedure.--
     Rule XI of the Rules of the House, which pertains entirely to 
     Committee procedure, is incorporated and made a part of the 
     rules of the Committee to the extent applicable. Pursuant to 
     clause 2(a)(3) of Rule XI of the Rules of the House, the 
     Chairman of the Committee is authorized to offer a motion 
     under clause 1 of Rule XXII of the Rules of the House 
     whenever the Chairman considers it appropriate.
       (b) Publication of Rules.--Pursuant to clause 2(a) of Rule 
     XI of the Rules of the House, the Committee's rules shall be 
     publicly available in electronic form and published in the 
     Congressional Record not later than 30 days after the 
     Chairman is elected in each odd-numbered year.
       (c) Vice Chairman.--The Chairman shall appoint a vice 
     chairman of the Committee and of each subcommittee. If the 
     Chairman of the Committee or subcommittee is not present at 
     any meeting of the Committee or subcommittee, as the case may 
     be, the vice chairman shall preside. If the vice chairman is 
     not present, the ranking member of the majority party on the 
     Committee or subcommittee who is present shall preside at 
     that meeting.


           rule ii. regular, additional, and special meetings

       (a) Regular Meetings.--Regular meetings of the Committee 
     shall be held on the last Wednesday of every month to 
     transact its business unless such day is a holiday, or the 
     House is in recess or is adjourned, in which case the 
     Chairman shall determine the regular meeting day of the 
     Committee for that month. A regular meeting of the Committee 
     may be dispensed with if, in the judgment of the Chairman, 
     there is no need for the meeting. This paragraph shall not 
     apply to meetings of any subcommittee.
       (b) Additional Meetings.--The Chairman may call and 
     convene, as he or she considers necessary, additional 
     meetings of the Committee for the consideration of any bill 
     or resolution pending before the Committee or for the conduct 
     of other committee business. The Committee shall meet for 
     such purpose pursuant to the call of the Chairman.
       (c) Special Meetings.--If at least three members of the 
     Committee desire that a special meeting of the Committee be 
     called by the Chairman, those members may file in the offices 
     of the Committee their written request to the Chairman for 
     that special meeting. Such request shall specify the measure 
     or matter to be considered. Immediately upon the filing of 
     the request, the clerk of the Committee shall notify the 
     Chairman of the filing of the request. If, within 3 calendar 
     days after the filing of the request, the Chairman does not 
     call the requested special meeting to be held within 7 
     calendar days after the filing of the request, a majority of 
     the members of the Committee may file in the offices of the 
     Committee their written notice that a special meeting of the 
     Committee will be held, specifying the date and hour thereof, 
     and the measure or matter to be considered at that special 
     meeting. The Committee shall meet on that date and hour. 
     Immediately upon the filing of the notice, the clerk of the 
     Committee shall notify all members of the Committee that such 
     meeting will be held and inform them of its date and hour and 
     the measure or matter to be considered; and only the measure 
     or matter specified in that notice may be considered at that 
     special meeting. Such notice shall also be made publicly 
     available in electronic form and shall be deemed to satisfy 
     paragraph (d)(1).
       (d) Notice.--
       (1) Minimum notice period.--Pursuant to clause 2(g)(3) of 
     Rule XI of the Rules of the House, the Chairman shall make a 
     public announcement of the date, place, and subject matter of 
     a Committee or subcommittee meeting, which may not commence 
     earlier than the third day on which members have notice 
     thereof.
       (2) Changes in meeting times.--A meeting may commence 
     sooner than announced if the Chairman, with concurrence of 
     the ranking minority member, determines there is good cause 
     to begin the meeting sooner or the Committee or subcommittee 
     so determines by majority vote, a quorum being present for 
     the transaction of business. The Chairman shall make a public 
     announcement of the meeting time change at the earliest 
     possible opportunity.
       (3) Notification of daily digest clerk.--The clerk of the 
     Committee shall notify the Daily Digest Clerk of the 
     Congressional Record as soon as possible after a public 
     announcement of a time change for a Committee or subcommittee 
     meeting is made under this paragraph.
       (e) Prohibition on Sitting During Joint Session.--The 
     Committee may not sit during a joint session of the House and 
     Senate or during a recess when a joint meeting of the House 
     and Senate is in progress.


               rule iii. meetings and hearings generally

       (a) Minimum Period for Availability of Committee Markup 
     Text.--Pursuant to clause 2(g)(4) of Rule XI of the Rules of 
     the House, the Chairman shall make publicly available, in 
     electronic form, the text of any legislation to be marked up 
     at least 24 hours prior to the commencement of a meeting for 
     the markup of legislation, or at the time of a meeting 
     announcement under paragraph (d)(2) of Committee Rule II if 
     made within 24 hours before such meeting.
       (b) Open Meetings.--Each meeting for the transaction of 
     business, including the markup of legislation, and each 
     hearing of the Committee or a subcommittee shall be open to 
     the public, except as provided by clause 2(g) of Rule XI of 
     the Rules of the House.
       (c) Meetings To Begin Promptly.--Each meeting or hearing of 
     the Committee shall begin promptly at the time so stipulated 
     in the public announcement of the meeting or hearing.
       (d) Addressing the Committee.--Except as provided under 
     paragraph (e) of Committee Rule VI, a Committee member may 
     address the Committee or a subcommittee on any bill, motion, 
     or other matter under consideration--
       (1) only when recognized by the Chairman for that purpose; 
     and
       (2) only for 5 minutes, or for a period of time designated 
     by the Chairman with concurrence of the ranking minority 
     member, until such time as each member of the Committee or 
     subcommittee who so desires has had an opportunity to address 
     the Committee or subcommittee.
       A member shall be limited in his or her remarks to the 
     subject matter under consideration. The Chairman shall 
     enforce this paragraph.
       (e) Participation of Members in Subcommittee Meetings and 
     Hearings.--All members of the Committee who are not members 
     of a particular subcommittee may, by unanimous consent of the 
     members of such subcommittee, participate in any subcommittee 
     meeting or hearing. However, a member who is not a member of 
     the subcommittee may not vote on any matter before the 
     subcommittee, be counted for purposes of establishing a 
     quorum, or raise points of order.
       (f) Broadcasting.--Whenever a meeting for the transaction 
     of business, including the markup of legislation, or a 
     hearing is open to the public, that meeting or hearing shall 
     be open to coverage by television, radio, and still 
     photography in accordance with clause 4 of Rule XI of the 
     Rules of the House. Operation and use of any Committee 
     Internet broadcast system shall be fair and nonpartisan and 
     in accordance with clause 4(b) of Rule XI of the Rules of the 
     House and all other applicable rules of the Committee and the 
     House. Further, pursuant to clause 2(e)(5) of Rule XI of the 
     Rules of the House, the Committee shall provide audio and 
     video coverage of each hearing or meeting for the transaction 
     of business in a manner that allows the public to easily 
     listen to and view the proceedings. The Committee shall also 
     maintain the recordings of such coverage in a manner that is 
     easily accessible to the public.
       (g) Access to the Dais and Lounges.--Access to the hearing 
     rooms' daises and to the lounges adjacent to the Committee 
     hearing rooms shall be limited to Members of Congress and 
     employees of Congress during a meeting or hearing of the 
     Committee unless specifically permitted by the Chairman or 
     ranking minority member.
       (h) Use of Cellular Telephones.--During a hearing, mark-up, 
     or other meeting of the Committee, ringing or audible sounds 
     or conversational use of cellular telephones or other 
     electronic devices is prohibited in the Committee room.
       (i) Availability of Text of Amendments in Electronic 
     Form.--Pursuant to clause 2(e) of Rule XI of the Rules of the 
     House, not later than 24 hours after the adoption of any 
     amendment to a measure or matter considered by the Committee, 
     the Chairman shall cause the text of the amendment to be made 
     publicly available in electronic form.


rule iv. power to sit and act; power to conduct investigations; oaths; 
                             subpoena power

       (a) Authority To Sit and Act.--For the purpose of carrying 
     out any of its functions and duties under Rules X and XI of 
     the Rules of the House, the Committee and each of its 
     subcommittees, is authorized (subject to paragraph (d)(1))--
       (1) to sit and act at such times and places within the 
     United States whether the House is in session, has recessed, 
     or has adjourned and to hold such hearings; and
       (2) to require, by subpoena or otherwise, the attendance 
     and testimony of such witnesses and the production of such 
     books, records, correspondence, memorandums, papers, and 
     documents, as it deems necessary.
       (b) Authority To Conduct Investigations.--
       (1) In general.--The Committee is authorized at any time to 
     conduct such investigations and studies as it may consider 
     necessary or appropriate in the exercise of its 
     responsibilities under Rule X of the Rules of the House and 
     (subject to the adoption of expense resolutions as required 
     by Rule X, clause 6 of the Rules of the House) to incur 
     expenses (including travel expenses) in connection therewith.
       (2) Major Investigations by Subcommittees.--A subcommittee 
     may not begin a major investigation without approval of a 
     majority of such subcommittee.

[[Page H971]]

       (c) Oaths.--The Chairman, or any member designated by the 
     Chairman, may administer oaths to any witness.
       (d) Issuance of Subpoenas.--
       (1) In general.--A subpoena may be issued by the Committee 
     or subcommittee under paragraph (a)(2) in the conduct of any 
     investigation or activity or series of investigations or 
     activities, only when authorized by a majority of the members 
     voting, a majority being present. Such authorized subpoenas 
     shall be signed by the Chairman of the Committee or by any 
     member designated by the Committee. If a specific request for 
     a subpoena has not been previously rejected by either the 
     Committee or subcommittee, the Chairman of the Committee, 
     after consultation with the ranking minority member of the 
     Committee, may authorize and issue a subpoena under paragraph 
     (a)(2) in the conduct of any investigation or activity or 
     series of investigations or activities, and such subpoena 
     shall for all purposes be deemed a subpoena issued by the 
     Committee. As soon as practicable after a subpoena is issued 
     under this rule, the Chairman shall notify all members of the 
     Committee of such action.
       (2) Enforcement.--Compliance with any subpoena issued by 
     the Committee or subcommittee under paragraph (a)(2) may be 
     enforced only as authorized or directed by the House.
       (e) Expenses of Subpoenaed Witnesses.--Each witness who has 
     been subpoenaed, upon the completion of his or her testimony 
     before the Committee or any subcommittee, may report to the 
     offices of the Committee, and there sign appropriate vouchers 
     for travel allowances and attendance fees. If hearings are 
     held in cities other than Washington, D.C., the witness may 
     contact the counsel of the Committee, or his or her 
     representative, before leaving the hearing room.


        rule v. quorums and record votes; postponement of votes

       (a) Working Quorum.--One-third of the members of the 
     Committee or a subcommittee shall constitute a quorum for 
     taking any action other than the closing of a meeting 
     pursuant to clauses 2(g) and 2(k)(5) of Rule XI of the Rules 
     of the House, the authorizing of a subpoena pursuant to 
     paragraph (d) of Committee Rule IV, the reporting of a 
     measure or recommendation pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of 
     Committee Rule VII, and the actions described in paragraphs 
     (b), (c) and (d) of this rule.
       (b) Quorum for Reporting.--A majority of the members of the 
     Committee or a subcommittee shall constitute a quorum for the 
     reporting of a measure or recommendation.
       (c) Approval of Certain Matters.--A majority of the members 
     of the Committee or a subcommittee shall constitute a quorum 
     for approval of a resolution concerning any of the following 
     actions:
       (1) A prospectus for construction, alteration, purchase or 
     acquisition of a public building or the lease of space as 
     required by section 3307 of title 40, United States Code.
       (2) Survey investigation of a proposed project for 
     navigation, flood control, and other purposes by the Corps of 
     Engineers (section 4 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of March 
     4, 1913, 33 U.S.C. 542).
       (3) Construction of a water resources development project 
     by the Corps of Engineers with an estimated Federal cost not 
     exceeding $15,000,000 (section 201 of the Flood Control Act 
     of 1965).
       (4) Deletion of water quality storage in a Federal 
     reservoir project where the benefits attributable to water 
     quality are 15 percent or more but not greater than 25 
     percent of the total project benefits (section 65 of the 
     Water Resources Development Act of 1974).
       (5) Authorization of a Natural Resources Conservation 
     Service watershed project involving any single structure of 
     more than 4,000 acre feet of total capacity (section 2 of 
     P.L. 566, 83rd Congress).
       (d) Quorum for Taking Testimony.--Two members of the 
     Committee or subcommittee shall constitute a quorum for the 
     purpose of taking testimony and receiving evidence.
       (e) Record Votes.--A record vote may be demanded by one-
     fifth of the members present.
       (f) Postponement of Votes.--
       (1) In general.--In accordance with clause 2(h)(4) of Rule 
     XI of the Rules of the House, the Chairman of the Committee 
     or a subcommittee, after consultation with the ranking 
     minority member of the Committee or subcommittee, may--
       (A) postpone further proceedings when a record vote is 
     ordered on the question of approving a measure or matter or 
     on adopting an amendment; and
       (B) resume proceedings on a postponed question at any time 
     after reasonable notice.
       (2) Resumption of proceedings.--When proceedings resume on 
     a postponed question, notwithstanding any intervening order 
     for the previous question, an underlying proposition shall 
     remain subject to further debate or amendment to the same 
     extent as when the question was postponed.
       (g) Availability of Record Votes in Electronic Form.--
     Pursuant to clause 2(e)(1)(B)(i) of Rule XI of the Rules of 
     the House, the Chairman shall make the result of any record 
     vote publicly available for inspection at reasonable times in 
     the offices of the Committee and in electronic form within 48 
     hours of such record vote.


                      rule vi. hearing procedures

       (a) Announcement of Hearing.--
       (1) Minimum notice period.--Pursuant to clause 2(g)(3) of 
     Rule XI of the Rules of the House, the Chairman shall make a 
     public announcement of the date, place, and subject matter of 
     a Committee or subcommittee hearing, which may not commence 
     earlier than the one week after such notice.
       (2) Changes in hearing times.--A hearing may commence 
     sooner than announced if the Chairman, with concurrence of 
     the ranking minority member, determines there is good cause 
     to begin the hearing sooner or the Committee so determines by 
     majority vote, a quorum being present for the transaction of 
     business. The Chairman shall make a public announcement of 
     the hearing time change at the earliest possible opportunity.
       (3) Notification of daily digest clerk.--The clerk of the 
     Committee shall notify the Daily Digest Clerk of the 
     Congressional Record as soon as possible after a public 
     announcement of a time change for a Committee or subcommittee 
     hearing is made under this paragraph.
       (b) Written Statement; Oral Testimony.--
       (1) Filing of statement.--So far as practicable, each 
     witness who is to appear before the Committee or a 
     subcommittee shall file with the clerk of the Committee or 
     subcommittee, at least 2 working days before the day of his 
     or her appearance, a written statement of proposed testimony. 
     The Chairman, with the concurrence of the ranking minority 
     member, may take the following actions for failure to comply 
     with this requirement: (A) exclude such witness' written 
     testimony from the hearing record; (B) bar such witness' oral 
     presentation of the testimony; or (C) both (A) and (B). Each 
     witness shall limit his or her oral presentation to a summary 
     of the written statement.
       (2) Truth in testimony information.--Pursuant to clause 
     2(g)(5) of Rule XI of the Rules of the House, in the case of 
     a witness appearing in a nongovernmental capacity, a written 
     statement of proposed testimony shall include a curriculum 
     vitae and a disclosure of the amount and source of each 
     Federal grant (or subgrant thereof) or contract (or 
     subcontract thereof), or the amount and country of origin of 
     any contract or payment originating with a foreign 
     government, received during the current calendar year or 
     either of the two previous calendar years by the witness or 
     by an entity represented by the witness and related to the 
     subject matter of the hearing.
       (3) Availability of information in electronic Form.--
     Statements filed under this paragraph, with appropriate 
     redaction to protect the privacy of the witness, shall be 
     made publicly available in electronic form not later than one 
     day after the witness appears.
       (c) Minority Witnesses.--When any hearing is conducted by 
     the Committee or any subcommittee upon any measure or matter, 
     the minority party members on the Committee or subcommittee 
     shall be entitled, upon request to the Chairman by a majority 
     of those minority members before the completion of such 
     hearing, to call witnesses selected by the minority to 
     testify with respect to that measure or matter during at 
     least one day of hearing thereon.
       (d) Summary of Subject Matter.--Upon announcement of a 
     hearing, to the extent practicable, the Committee shall make 
     available immediately to all members of the Committee a 
     concise summary of the subject matter (including legislative 
     reports and other material) under consideration. In addition, 
     upon announcement of a hearing and subsequently as they are 
     received, the Chairman shall make available to the members of 
     the Committee any official reports from departments and 
     agencies on such matter.
       (e) Opening Statements; Questioning of Witnesses.--
       (1) Opening statements.--
       (A) Chairman and ranking member.--At a hearing of the Full 
     Committee, the Chairman and ranking minority member of the 
     Committee shall each be entitled to present an oral opening 
     statement of five minutes. At a hearing of a subcommittee, 
     the Chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee and 
     the Chairman and ranking minority member of the subcommittee 
     shall each be entitled to present an opening statement for 
     five minutes.
       (B) Other members.--At a hearing of the Full Committee or a 
     subcommittee, other members of the Committee or subcommittee, 
     as appropriate, may submit written opening statements for the 
     record. The Chairman presiding over the hearing may permit 
     oral opening statements by other members of the Committee or 
     subcommittee, as appropriate, with the concurrence of the 
     ranking minority member.
       (2) Questioning of witnesses.--The questioning of witnesses 
     in Committee and subcommittee hearings shall be initiated by 
     the Chairman, followed by the ranking minority member and all 
     other members alternating between the majority and minority 
     parties. In recognizing members to question witnesses in this 
     fashion, the Chairman shall take into consideration the ratio 
     of the majority to minority members present and shall 
     establish the order of recognition for questioning in such a 
     manner as not to disadvantage the members of the majority nor 
     the members of the minority. The Chairman may accomplish this 
     by recognizing two majority members for each minority member 
     recognized.
       (f) Procedures for Questions.--
       (1) In general.--A Committee member may question a witness 
     at a hearing--
       (A) only when recognized by the Chairman for that purpose; 
     and
       (B) subject to subparagraphs (2) and (3), only for 5 
     minutes until such time as each

[[Page H972]]

     member of the Committee or subcommittee who so desires has 
     had an opportunity to question the witness.
       A member shall be limited in his or her remarks to the 
     subject matter under consideration. The Chairman shall 
     enforce this subparagraph.
       (2) Extended questioning of witnesses by members.--The 
     chairman of the committee or a subcommittee, with the 
     concurrence of the ranking minority member, or the Committee 
     or subcommittee by motion, may permit a specified number of 
     its members to question a witness for longer than 5 minutes. 
     The time for extended questioning of a witness under this 
     subdivision shall be equal for the majority party and 
     minority party and may not exceed one hour in the aggregate.
       (3) Extended questioning of witnesses by staff.--The 
     Chairman of the Committee or a subcommittee, with the 
     concurrence of the ranking minority member, or the Committee 
     or subcommittee by motion, may permit Committee staff for its 
     majority and minority party members to question a witness for 
     equal specified periods. The time for extended questioning of 
     a witness under this subdivision shall be equal for the 
     majority party and minority party and may not exceed one hour 
     in the aggregate.
       (4) Right to question witnesses following extended 
     questioning.--Nothing in subparagraph (2) or (3) affects the 
     right of a member (other than a member designated under 
     subparagraph (2)) to question a witness for 5 minutes in 
     accordance with subparagraph (1)(B) after the questioning 
     permitted under subparagraph (2) or (3).
       (g) Additional Hearing Procedures.--Clause 2(k) of Rule XI 
     of the Rules of the House (relating to additional rules for 
     hearings) applies to hearings of the Committee and its 
     subcommittees.


   rule vii. procedures for reporting bills, resolutions, and reports

       (a) Filing of Reports.--
       (1) In general.--The Chairman of the Committee shall report 
     promptly to the House any measure or matter approved by the 
     Committee and take necessary steps to bring the measure or 
     matter to a vote.
       (2) Requests for reporting.--The report of the Committee on 
     a measure or matter which has been approved by the Committee 
     shall be filed within 7 calendar days (exclusive of days on 
     which the House is not in session) after the day on which 
     there has been filed with the clerk of the Committee a 
     written request, signed by a majority of the members of the 
     Committee, for the reporting of that measure or matter. Upon 
     the filing of any such request, the clerk of the Committee 
     shall transmit immediately to the Chairman of the Committee 
     notice of the filing of that request.
       (b) Quorum; Record Votes.--
       (1) Quorum.--No measure, matter, or recommendation shall be 
     reported from the Committee unless a majority of the 
     Committee was actually present.
       (2) Record Votes.--With respect to each record vote on a 
     motion to report any measure or matter of a public character, 
     and on any amendment offered to the measure or matter, the 
     total number of votes cast for and against, and the names of 
     those members voting for and against, shall be included in 
     the Committee report on the measure or matter.
       (c) Required Matters.--The report of the Committee on a 
     measure or matter which has been approved by the Committee 
     shall include the items required to be included by clauses 
     2(c) and 3 of Rule XIII of the Rules of the House.
       (d) Additional Views.--If, at the time of approval of any 
     measure or matter by the Committee, any member of the 
     Committee gives notice of intention to file supplemental, 
     minority, additional, or dissenting views, all members shall 
     be entitled to not less than two additional calendar days 
     after the day of such notice (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, 
     and legal holidays) in which to file such written and signed 
     views in accordance with clause 2(1) of Rule XI of the Rules 
     of the House.
       (e) Activities Report.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than January 2 of each odd 
     numbered year, the Committee shall submit to the House a 
     report on the activities of the Committee.
       (2) Contents.--The report shall include--
       (A) separate sections summarizing the legislative and 
     oversight activities of the Committee under Rules X and XI of 
     the Rules of the House during the Congress;
       (B) a summary of the authorization and oversight plan 
     submitted by the Committee under clause 2(d) of Rule X of the 
     Rules of the House;
       (C) a summary of the actions taken and recommendations made 
     with respect to the authorization and oversight plan 
     specified in subdivision (B);
       (D) a summary of any additional oversight activities 
     undertaken by the Committee and any recommendations made or 
     actions taken thereon; and
       (E) a delineation of any hearings held pursuant to clauses 
     2(n), (o), or (p) of Rule XI of the Rules of the House.
       (3) Filing.--After an adjournment sine die of the last 
     regular session of a Congress, or after December 15 of an 
     even numbered year, whichever occurs first, the Chairman may 
     file the report described in subparagraph (1) with the Clerk 
     of the House at any time and without approval of the 
     Committee, provided that--
       (A) a copy of the report has been available to each member 
     of the Committee for at least seven calendar days; and
       (B) the report includes any supplemental, minority, 
     additional, or dissenting views submitted by a member of the 
     Committee.
       (f) Other Committee Materials.--
       (1) In General.--All Committee and subcommittee prints, 
     reports, documents, or other materials, not otherwise 
     provided for under this rule, that purport to express 
     publicly the views of the Committee or any of its 
     subcommittees or members of the Committee or its 
     subcommittees shall be approved by the Committee or the 
     subcommittee prior to printing and distribution and any 
     member shall be given an opportunity to have views included 
     as part of such material prior to printing, release, and 
     distribution in accordance with paragraph (d) of this rule.
       (2) Documents containing views other than member views.--A 
     Committee or subcommittee document containing views other 
     than those of members of the Committee or subcommittee shall 
     not be published without approval of the Committee or 
     subcommittee.
       (3) Disclaimer.--All Committee or subcommittee reports 
     printed pursuant to legislative study or investigation and 
     not approved by a majority vote of the Committee or 
     subcommittee, as appropriate, shall contain the following 
     disclaimer on the cover of such report: ``This report has not 
     been officially adopted by the Committee on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure (or pertinent subcommittee thereof) and 
     may not therefore necessarily reflect the views of its 
     members.''.
       (4) Compilations of laws.--To the maximum extent 
     practicable, the Committee shall publish a compilation of 
     laws under the jurisdiction of each subcommittee.
       (g) Availability of Publications.--Pursuant to clause 
     2(e)(4) of Rule XI of the Rules of the House, the Committee 
     shall make its publications available in electronic form to 
     the maximum extent feasible.


    rule viii. establishment of subcommittees; size and party ratios

       (a) Establishment.--There shall be 6 standing 
     subcommittees. These subcommittees, with the following sizes 
     (including delegates) andmajority/minority ratios, are:
       (1) Subcommittee on Aviation (39 Members: 22 Majority and 
     17 Minority).
       (2) Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation 
     (16 Members: 9 Majority and 7 Minority).
       (3) Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings, 
     and Emergency Management (15 Members: 9 Majority and 6 
     Minority).
       (4) Subcommittee on Highways and Transit (50 Members: 28 
     Majority and 22 Minority).
       (5) Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous 
     Materials (34 Members: 19 Majority and 15 Minority).
       (6) Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment (32 
     Members: 18 Majority and 14 Minority).
       (b) Ex Officio Members.--The Chairman and ranking minority 
     member of the Committee shall serve as ex officio voting 
     members on each subcommittee.
       (c) Ratios.--On each subcommittee there shall be a ratio of 
     majority party members to minority party members which shall 
     be no less favorable to the majority party than the ratio for 
     the Full Committee. In calculating the ratio of majority 
     party members to minority party members, there shall be 
     included the ex officio members of the subcommittees.


              rule ix. powers and duties of subcommittees

       (a) Authority To Sit.--Each subcommittee is authorized to 
     meet, hold hearings, receive evidence, and report to the Full 
     Committee on all matters referred to it or under its 
     jurisdiction. Subcommittee chairmen shall set dates for 
     hearings and meetings of their respective subcommittees after 
     consultation with the Chairman and other subcommittee 
     chairmen with a view toward avoiding simultaneous scheduling 
     of Full Committee and subcommittee meetings or hearings 
     whenever possible.
       (b) Consideration by Committee.--Each bill, resolution, or 
     other matter favorably reported by a subcommittee shall 
     automatically be placed upon the agenda of the Committee. Any 
     such matter reported by a subcommittee shall not be 
     considered by the Committee unless it has been delivered to 
     the offices of all members of the Committee at least 48 hours 
     before the meeting, unless the Chairman determines that the 
     matter is of such urgency that it should be given early 
     consideration. Where practicable, such matters shall be 
     accompanied by a comparison with present law and a section-
     by-section analysis.


            rule x. referral of legislation to subcommittees

       (a) General Requirement.--Except where the Chairman of the 
     Committee determines, in consultation with the majority 
     members of the Committee, that consideration is to be by the 
     Full Committee, each bill, resolution, investigation, or 
     other matter which relates to a subject listed under the 
     jurisdiction of any subcommittee established in Committee 
     Rule VIII referred to or initiated by the Full Committee 
     shall be referred by the Chairman to all subcommittees of 
     appropriate jurisdiction within two weeks. All bills shall be 
     referred to the subcommittee of proper jurisdiction without 
     regard to whether the author is or is not a member of the 
     subcommittee.

[[Page H973]]

       (b) Recall From Subcommittee.--A bill, resolution, or other 
     matter referred to a subcommittee in accordance with this 
     rule may be recalled therefrom at any time by a vote of a 
     majority of the members of the Committee voting, a quorum 
     being present, for the Committee's direct consideration or 
     for reference to another subcommittee.
       (c) Multiple Referrals.--In carrying out this rule with 
     respect to any matter, the Chairman may refer the matter 
     simultaneously to two or more subcommittees for concurrent 
     consideration or for consideration in sequence (subject to 
     appropriate time limitations in the case of any subcommittee 
     after the first), or divide the matter into two or more parts 
     (reflecting different subjects and jurisdictions) and refer 
     each such part to a different subcommittee, or make such 
     other provisions as he or she considers appropriate.


                  RULE XI. RECOMMENDATION OF CONFEREES

       The Chairman of the Committee shall recommend to the 
     Speaker as conferees the names of those members (1) of the 
     majority party selected by the Chairman, and (2) of the 
     minority party selected by the ranking minority member of the 
     Committee. Recommendations of conferees to the Speaker shall 
     provide a ratio of majority party members to minority party 
     members which shall be no less favorable to the majority 
     party than the ratio for the Committee.


                          RULE XII. OVERSIGHT

       (a) Purpose.--The Committee shall carry out oversight 
     responsibilities as provided in this rule in order to assist 
     the House in--
       (1) its analysis, appraisal, and evaluation of--
       (A) the application, administration, execution, and 
     effectiveness of the laws enacted by the Congress; or
       (B) conditions and circumstances which may indicate the 
     necessity or desirability of enacting new or additional 
     legislation; and
       (2) its formulation, consideration, and enactment of such 
     modifications or changes in those laws, and of such 
     additional legislation, as may be necessary or appropriate.
       (b) Authorization and Oversight Plan.--Not later than 
     February 15 of the first session of each Congress, the 
     Committee shall adopt its authorization and oversight plan 
     for that Congress in accordance with clause 2(d)(1) of Rule X 
     of the Rules of the House.
       (c) Review of Laws and Programs.--The Committee and the 
     appropriate subcommittees shall cooperatively review and 
     study, on a continuing basis, the application, 
     administration, execution, and effectiveness of those laws, 
     or parts of laws, the subject matter of which is within the 
     jurisdiction of the Committee, and the organization and 
     operation of the Federal agencies and entities having 
     responsibilities in or for the administration and execution 
     thereof, in order to determine whether such laws and the 
     programs thereunder are being implemented and carried out in 
     accordance with the intent of the Congress and whether such 
     programs should be continued, curtailed, or eliminated. In 
     addition, the Committee and the appropriate subcommittees 
     shall cooperatively review and study any conditions or 
     circumstances which may indicate the necessity or 
     desirability of enacting new or additional legislation within 
     the jurisdiction of the Committee (whether or not any bill or 
     resolution has been introduced with respect thereto), and 
     shall on a continuing basis undertake future research and 
     forecasting on matters within the jurisdiction of the 
     Committee.
       (d) Review of Tax Policies.--The Committee and the 
     appropriate subcommittees shall cooperatively review and 
     study on a continuing basis the impact or probable impact of 
     tax policies affecting subjects within the jurisdiction of 
     the Committee.


    RULE XIII. REVIEW OF CONTINUING PROGRAMS; BUDGET ACT PROVISIONS

       (a) Ensuring Annual Appropriations.--The Committee shall, 
     in its consideration of all bills and joint resolutions of a 
     public character within its jurisdiction, ensure that 
     appropriations for continuing programs and activities of the 
     Federal Government and the District of Columbia government 
     will be made annually to the maximum extent feasible and 
     consistent with the nature, requirements, and objectives of 
     the programs and activities involved.
       (b) Review of Multi-Year Appropriations.--The Committee 
     shall review, from time to time, each continuing program 
     within its jurisdiction for which appropriations are not made 
     annually in order to ascertain whether such program could be 
     modified so that appropriations therefore would be made 
     annually.
       (c) Views and Estimates.--In accordance with clause 4(f)(1) 
     of Rule X of the Rules of the House, the Committee shall 
     submit to the Committee on the Budget--
       (1) its views and estimates with respect to all matters to 
     be set forth in the concurrent resolution on the budget for 
     the ensuing fiscal year which are within its jurisdiction or 
     functions; and
       (2) an estimate of the total amount of new budget 
     authority, and budget outlays resulting therefrom, to be 
     provided or authorized in all bills and resolutions within 
     its jurisdiction which it intends to be effective during that 
     fiscal year.
       (d) Budget Allocations.--As soon as practicable after a 
     concurrent resolution on the budget for any fiscal year is 
     agreed to, the Committee (after consulting with the 
     appropriate committee or committees of the Senate) shall 
     subdivide any allocations made to it in the joint explanatory 
     statement accompanying the conference report on such 
     resolution, and promptly report such subdivisions to the 
     House, in the manner provided by section 302 of the 
     Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
       (e) Reconciliation.--Whenever the Committee is directed in 
     a concurrent resolution on the budget to determine and 
     recommend changes in laws, bills, or resolutions under the 
     reconciliation process, it shall promptly make such 
     determination and recommendations, and report a 
     reconciliation bill or resolution (or both) to the House or 
     submit such recommendations to the Committee on the Budget, 
     in accordance with the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.


                           RULE XIV. RECORDS

       (a) Keeping of Records.--The Committee shall keep a 
     complete record of all Committee action which shall include--
       (1) in the case of any meeting or hearing transcripts, a 
     substantially verbatim account of remarks actually made 
     during the proceedings, subject only to technical, 
     grammatical, and typographical corrections authorized by the 
     person making the remarks involved; and
       (2) a record of the votes on any question on which a record 
     vote is taken.
       (b) Public Inspection.--The result of each such record vote 
     shall be made available by the Committee for inspection by 
     the public at reasonable times in the offices of the 
     Committee. Information so available for public inspection 
     shall include a description of the amendment, motion, order, 
     or other proposition and the name of each member voting for 
     and each member voting against such amendment, motion, order, 
     or proposition, and the names of those members present but 
     not voting.
       (c) Property of the House.--All Committee records 
     (including hearings, data, charts, and files) shall be kept 
     separate and distinct from the congressional office records 
     of the member serving as Chairman of the Committee; and such 
     records shall be the property of the House and all members of 
     the House shall have access thereto.
       (d) Availability of Archived Records.--The records of the 
     Committee at the National Archives and Records Administration 
     shall be made available for public use in accordance with 
     Rule VII of the Rules of the House. The Chairman shall notify 
     the ranking minority member of the Committee of any decision, 
     pursuant to clause 3(b)(3) or clause 4(b) of such rule, to 
     withhold a record otherwise available, and the matter shall 
     be presented to the Committee for a determination on written 
     request of any member of the Committee.
       (e) Authority To Print.--The Committee is authorized to 
     have printed and bound testimony and other data presented at 
     hearings held by the Committee. All costs of stenographic 
     services and transcripts in connection with any meeting or 
     hearing of the Committee shall be paid as provided in clause 
     1(c) of Rule XI of the House.


                       RULE XV. COMMITTEE BUDGETS

       (a) Biennial Budget.--The Chairman, in consultation with 
     the chairman of each subcommittee, the majority members of 
     the Committee, and the minority members of the Committee, 
     shall, for each Congress, prepare a consolidated Committee 
     budget. Such budget shall include necessary amounts for staff 
     personnel, necessary travel, investigation, and other 
     expenses of the Committee.
       (b) Additional Expenses.--Authorization for the payment of 
     additional or unforeseen Committee expenses may be procured 
     by one or more additional expense resolutions processed in 
     the same manner as set out herein.
       (c) Travel Requests.--The Chairman or any chairman of a 
     subcommittee may initiate necessary travel requests as 
     provided in Committee Rule XVII within the limits of the 
     consolidated budget as approved by the House and the Chairman 
     may execute necessary vouchers thereof.
       (d) Monthly Reports.--Once monthly, the Chairman shall 
     submit to the Committee on House Administration, in writing, 
     a full and detailed accounting of all expenditures made 
     during the period since the last such accounting from the 
     amount budgeted to the Committee. Such report shall show the 
     amount and purpose of such expenditure and the budget to 
     which such expenditure is attributed. A copy of such monthly 
     report shall be available in the Committee office for review 
     by members of the Committee.


                       RULE XVI. COMMITTEE STAFF

       (a) Appointment by Chairman.--The Chairman shall appoint 
     and determine the remuneration of, and may remove, the 
     employees of the Committee not assigned to the minority. The 
     staff of the Committee not assigned to the minority shall be 
     under the general supervision and direction of the Chairman, 
     who shall establish and assign the duties and 
     responsibilities of such staff members and delegate such 
     authority as he or she determines appropriate.
       (b) Appointment by Ranking Minority Member.--The ranking 
     minority member of the Committee shall appoint and determine 
     the remuneration of, and may remove, the staff assigned to 
     the minority within the budget approved for such purposes. 
     The staff assigned to the minority shall be under the general 
     supervision and direction of the ranking minority member of 
     the Committee who may delegate such authority as he or she 
     determines appropriate.
       (c) Intention Regarding Staff.--It is intended that the 
     skills and experience of all members of the Committee staff 
     shall be available to all members of the Committee.

[[Page H974]]

  



                 RULE XVII. TRAVEL OF MEMBERS AND STAFF

       (a) Approval.--Consistent with the primary expense 
     resolution and such additional expense resolutions as may 
     have been approved, the provisions of this rule shall govern 
     travel of Committee members and staff. Travel to be 
     reimbursed from funds set aside for the Committee for any 
     member or any staff member shall be paid only upon the prior 
     authorization of the Chairman. Travel shall be authorized by 
     the Chairman for any member and any staff member in 
     connection with the attendance of hearings conducted by the 
     Committee or any subcommittee and meetings, conferences, and 
     investigations which involve activities or subject matter 
     under the general jurisdiction of the Committee. Before such 
     authorization is given there shall be submitted to the 
     Chairman in writing the following:
       (1) The purpose of the travel.
       (2) The dates during which the travel is to be made and the 
     date or dates of the event for which the travel is being 
     made.
       (3) The location of the event for which the travel is to be 
     made.
       (4) The names of members and staff seeking authorization.
       (b) Subcommittee Travel.--In the case of travel of members 
     and staff of a subcommittee to hearings, meetings, 
     conferences, and investigations involving activities or 
     subject matter under the legislative assignment of such 
     subcommittee, prior authorization must be obtained from the 
     subcommittee chairman and the Chairman. Such prior 
     authorization shall be given by the Chairman only upon the 
     representation by the chairman of such subcommittee in 
     writing setting forth those items enumerated in subparagraphs 
     (1), (2), (3), and (4) of paragraph (a) and that there has 
     been a compliance where applicable with Committee Rule VI.
       (c) Travel Outside the United States.--
       (1) In general.--In the case of travel outside the United 
     States of members and staff of the Committee or of a 
     subcommittee for the purpose of conducting hearings, 
     investigations, studies, or attending meetings and 
     conferences involving activities or subject matter under the 
     legislative assignment of the Committee or pertinent 
     subcommittee, prior authorization must be obtained from the 
     Chairman, or, in the case of a subcommittee from the 
     subcommittee chairman and the Chairman. Before such 
     authorization is given there shall be submitted to the 
     Chairman, in writing, a request for such authorization. Each 
     request, which shall be filed in a manner that allows for a 
     reasonable period of time for review before such travel is 
     scheduled to begin, shall include the following:
       (A) The purpose of the travel.
       (B) The dates during which the travel will occur.
       (C) The names of the countries to be visited and the length 
     of time to be spent in each.
       (D) An agenda of anticipated activities for each country 
     for which travel is authorized together with a description of 
     the purpose to be served and the areas of Committee 
     jurisdiction involved.
       (E) The names of members and staff for whom authorization 
     is sought.
       (2) Initiation of requests.--Requests for travel outside 
     the United States may be initiated by the Chairman or the 
     chairman of a subcommittee (except that individuals may 
     submit a request to the Chairman for the purpose of attending 
     a conference or meeting) and shall be limited to members and 
     permanent employees of the Committee.
       (d) Reports by Members and Staff.--Within 15 legislative 
     days from the conclusion of any hearing, investigation, 
     study, meeting, or conference for which travel has been 
     authorized pursuant to this rule, each member and staff 
     member involved in such travel shall submit a written report 
     to the Chairman covering the activities and other pertinent 
     observations or information gained as a result of such 
     travel.
       (e) Applicability of Laws, Rules, Policies.--Members and 
     staff of the Committee performing authorized travel on 
     official business shall be governed by applicable laws, 
     resolutions, or regulations of the House and of the 
     Committees on House Administration and Ethics pertaining to 
     such travel, and by the travel policy of the Committee.


                      RULE XVIII. COMMITTEE PANELS

       (a) Designation.--In accordance with clause 5(b)(2)(C) of 
     Rule X of the Rules of the House, the Chairman of the 
     Committee, with the concurrence of the ranking minority 
     member, may designate a panel of the Committee consisting of 
     members of the Committee to inquire into and take testimony 
     on a matter or matters that fall within the jurisdiction of 
     more than one subcommittee and to report to the Committee.
       (b) Duration.--No panel designated under paragraph (a) 
     shall continue in existence for more than six months after 
     the date of the designation.
       (c) Party Ratios and Appointment.--The ratio of majority 
     members to minority members on a panel designated under 
     paragraph (a) shall be as close as practicable to the ratio 
     of the Full Committee. All majority members of the panels 
     shall be appointed by the Chairman of the Committee, and all 
     minority members shall be appointed by the ranking minority 
     member of the Committee. The Chairman of the Committee shall 
     choose one of the majority members so appointed to serve as 
     Chairman of the panel. The ranking minority member of the 
     Committee shall similarly choose the ranking minority member 
     of the panel.
       (d) Ex Officio Members.--The Chairman and ranking minority 
     member of the Committee may serve as ex-officio members of a 
     panel designated under paragraph (a). The Chairman and 
     ranking minority member are authorized to vote on matters 
     that arise before the panel and shall be counted to satisfy 
     the quorum requirement for any purpose.
       (e) Jurisdiction.--No panel designated under paragraph (a) 
     shall have legislative jurisdiction.
       (f) Applicability of Committee Rules.--A panel designated 
     under paragraph (a) shall be subject to all Committee Rules 
     herein.

                          ____________________



