

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 17 (Wednesday, February 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 17 (Wednesday, February 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S595-S596]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 18

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) was added as a cosponsor of S. 18, a bill to promote 
freedom, fairness, and economic opportunity by repealing the income tax 
and other taxes, abolishing the Internal Revenue Service, and enacting 
a national sales tax to be administered primarily by the States.


                                 S. 55

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from New 
York (Mr. Schumer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 55, a bill to 
authorize the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a special resource 
study of Fort Ontario in the State of New York.


                                 S. 82

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 82, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to expand the denial of deduction for 
certain excessive employee remuneration, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 87

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 87, a bill to 
ensure that State and local law enforcement may cooperate with Federal 
officials to protect

[[Page S596]]

our communities from violent criminals and suspected terrorists who are 
illegally present in the United States.


                                 S. 96

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 96, a bill to amend the 
Communications Act of 1934 to ensure the integrity of voice 
communications and to prevent unjust or unreasonable discrimination 
among areas of the United States in the delivery of such 
communications.


                                 S. 175

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 175, a bill to amend the 
Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to transfer certain 
funds to the Multiemployer Health Benefit Plan and the 1974 United Mine 
Workers of America Pension Plan, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 178

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 178, a bill to prevent elder 
abuse and exploitation and improve the justice system's response to 
victims in elder abuse and exploitation cases.


                                 S. 203

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the names of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) and the Senator from Missouri (Mr. Blunt) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 203, a bill to reaffirm that the Environmental 
Protection Agency may not regulate vehicles used solely for 
competition, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 220

  At the request of Mr. Sasse, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 220, a bill to amend 
title 18, United States Code, to prohibit a health care practitioner 
from failing to exercise the proper degree of care in the case of a 
child who survives an abortion or attempted abortion.


                                 S. 224

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham), the Senator from Iowa (Mr. Grassley) and the 
Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Thune) were added as cosponsors of S. 
224, a bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to prohibit taking 
minors across State lines in circumvention of laws requiring the 
involvement of parents in abortion decisions.


                                 S. 229

  At the request of Mr. Heinrich, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 229, a bill to provide for the 
confidentiality of information submitted in requests for the Deferred 
Action for Childhood Arrivals Program and for other purposes.


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Mr. Johnson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 236, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic 
beverages.


                                 S. 240

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the names of the Senator from 
Hawaii (Mr. Schatz), the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Bennet), the 
Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) and the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were added as cosponsors of S. 240, a bill to 
nullify the effect of the recent executive order that temporarily 
restricted individuals from certain countries from entering the United 
States.


                                 S. 247

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the names of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken) and the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 247, a bill to provide an incentive for 
businesses to bring jobs back to America.


                                 S. 248

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the names of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper), the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand), the Senator 
from Vermont (Mr. Leahy) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. 
Markey) were added as cosponsors of S. 248, a bill to block 
implementation of the Executive Order that restricts individuals from 
certain countries from entering the United States.


                              S.J. RES. 8

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 8, a joint resolution 
proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States 
relating to contributions and expenditures intended to affect 
elections.


                              S.J. RES. 9

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the names of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. Flake), the Senator from Wyoming (Mr. Barrasso), the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran), the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Roberts), the 
Senator from Texas (Mr. Cornyn), the Senator from Utah (Mr. Hatch), the 
Senator from Kentucky (Mr. Paul), the Senator from Alaska (Mr. 
Sullivan), the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Lankford) and the Senator 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) were added as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 9, 
a joint resolution providing for congressional disapproval under 
chapter 8, of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the 
Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the disclosure of 
payments by resource extraction issuers.


                              S.J. RES. 10

  At the request of Mr. Thune, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
S.J. Res. 10, a joint resolution providing for congressional 
disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the 
final rule submitted by the Secretary of the Interior relating to 
stream protection.


                              S.J. RES. 14

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker), the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Cochran), 
the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Inhofe) and the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
Heller) were added as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 14, a joint resolution 
providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, 
United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Social Security 
Administration relating to Implementation of the NICS Improvement 
Amendments Act of 2007.


                             S. CON. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the names of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) and the Senator from Wyoming (Mr. Enzi) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Con. Res. 6, a concurrent resolution supporting the 
Local Radio Freedom Act.


                               S. RES. 18

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 18, a resolution 
reaffirming the United States-Argentina partnership and recognizing 
Argentina's economic reforms.

                          ____________________



