

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S440]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE

  At 11:41 a.m., a message from the House of Representatives, delivered 
by Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks, announced that the House has 
passed the following bills, in which it requests the concurrence of the 
Senate:

       H.R. 290. An act to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to 
     provide for greater transparency and efficiency in the 
     procedures followed by the Federal Communications Commission, 
     and for other purposes.
       H.R. 423. An act to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to 
     expand and clarify the prohibition on provision of misleading 
     or inaccurate caller identification information, and for 
     other purposes.
       H.R. 460. An act to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to 
     ensure the integrity of voice communications and to prevent 
     unjust or unreasonable discrimination among areas of the 
     United States in the delivery of such communications.
       H.R. 511. An act to provide for consideration of the 
     extension under the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 
     nonapplication of No-Load Mode energy efficiency standards to 
     certain security or life safety alarms or surveillance 
     systems, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 518. An act to amend the Energy Policy and 
     Conservation Act to exclude power supply circuits, drivers, 
     and devices designed to be connected to, and power, light-
     emitting diodes or organic light-emitting diodes providing 
     illumination from energy conservation standards for external 
     power supplies, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 555. An act to direct the Federal Communications 
     Commission to amend its rules so as to prohibit the 
     application to amateur stations of certain private land use 
     restrictions, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 582. An act to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to 
     require multi-line telephone systems to have a configuration 
     that permits users to directly initiate a call to 9-1-1 
     without dialing any additional digit, code, prefix, or post-
     fix, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 587. An act to amend the Federal Power Act to provide 
     that any inaction by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
     that allows a rate change to go into effect shall be treated 
     as an order by the Commission for purposes of rehearing and 
     court review.
       H.R. 588. An act to direct the Federal Communications 
     Commission to conduct a study on network resiliency during 
     times of emergency, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 590. An act to foster civilian research and 
     development of advanced nuclear energy technologies and 
     enhance the licensing and commercial deployment of such 
     technologies.
       H.R. 599. An act to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to 
     consolidate the reporting obligations of the Federal 
     Communications Commission in order to improve congressional 
     oversight and reduce reporting burdens.

  The message also announced that pursuant to section 603 of the 
Department of State Authorities Act, Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-
323), and the order of the House of January 3, 2017, the Minority 
Leader appoints the following Member of the House of Representatives to 
the Western Hemisphere Drug Policy Commission: Mr. Sam Farr of Carmel, 
California.
  The message further announced that pursuant to section 553 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 
114-328), and the order of the House of January 3, 2017, the Minority 
Leader appoints the following individual to the National Commission on 
Military, National and Public Service: Mr. Edward T. Allard III of Los 
Angeles, California.

                          ____________________



