

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 55 (Wednesday, March 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 55 (Wednesday, March 29, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2523-H2524]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1045
                REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF JOE ROGERS, SR.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. Carter) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to remember the life 
of Joe Rogers, Sr., the co-founder of Waffle House, who passed away on 
March 3, 2017, at the age of 97.

[[Page H2524]]

  In 1919, Mr. Rogers was born in Jackson, Tennessee. Before he became 
a waffle cook, Mr. Rogers served as a captain in the Army Air Corps 
during World War II.
  After the war, he took a job as a short-order cook, eventually moving 
to Atlanta in 1949. It was there that he met his future partner in the 
Waffle House business, Tom Forkner. In famous words, Mr. Rogers told 
his friend: ``You build a restaurant and I'll show you how to run it.''
  Their decision was the start of something special. The first Waffle 
House opened on Labor Day weekend, 1955, in Avondale Estates, Georgia. 
It was Mr. Rogers' suggestion to keep their restaurant doors open all 
day long so people would always have a warm place to eat.
  Soon enough, more and more towns needed their own 24-hour diner, and 
today, more than 2,100 locations are scattered across 25 States. 
Georgia leads the way with more than 400 locations covering the State.
  What Mr. Rogers valued the most was the people, whether they were 
dedicated regulars, hungry drop-ins, or the employees who made his 
dream possible. His passion for people was a defining characteristic in 
his life and is an endearing trait of the Waffle House legacy.
  Thank you, Mr. Rogers, for welcoming any who entered the Waffle House 
doors, regardless of who they were, what time they came, or how they 
ordered their hash browns.


                           Best of the South

  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate 
Southern Soul Barbeque for winning the Southern Living magazine's first 
ever Best of the South Award.
  In fall of 2016, Southern Living polled its nationwide audience to 
discover America's favorite cities, hotels, shops, museums, and 
restaurants in the South. At the end of the poll, America crowned St. 
Simons Island's own Southern Soul Barbeque as the best barbecue 
restaurant in the South.
  The restaurant opened in 2007 when Harrison Sapp and Griffin Bufkin 
joined forces to create an authentic barbecue restaurant that embraces 
its Southern roots. Southern Soul Barbeque was born in a converted gas 
station with Southern charm, making it the perfect atmosphere to feast 
on Mr. Sapp's and Mr. Bufkin's barbecue dishes. They cook their 
delicious pork ribs and brisket on oak-fired pits outside their 
restaurant, so patrons know they are enjoying authentic barbecue.
  Over the years, the restaurant has enjoyed a loyal local following 
and was even featured on the Food Network in 2010. These days, business 
is booming, and should only grow from here.
  In their efforts to feed the folks of St. Simons Island, Mr. Sapp and 
Mr. Bufkin created more than a barbecue restaurant, they created a 
barbecue experience.
  Congratulations to Mr. Sapp and Mr. Bufkin on winning this award, and 
for the national recognition their hard work earned.


                   Remembering the Life of Burke Day

  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to remember the life 
of former Georgia State Representative Burke Day. Mr. Day passed away 
in his Tybee Island home on March 5, 2017, at the age of 62.
  Mr. Day was born in Jacksonville, North Carolina, to parents, Cecil 
and Marian, but he grew up in Dunwoody, Georgia. It was there that Mr. 
Day met his high school sweetheart and future wife, Sally, at Peachtree 
High School.
  During this time, he helped lay the foundation of his father's new 
business, Days Inn Hotels. Mr. Day worked with his father to build the 
very first location on Tybee Island.
  After studying at the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York 
City and Mercer University in Atlanta, Mr. Day joined the family 
business of real estate like his father.
  In 1991, he made his start in politics by running for the Tybee 
Island City Council on a dare, and won. During this time, he grew to 
love public service. Three years later he ran again, this time for the 
Georgia General Assembly House of Representatives, where he served for 
the next 16 years until his retirement in 2010.
  Perhaps his greatest achievement was his work on the Stephens-Day 
legislation in 2000, which freezes the value of residential property at 
the time it was purchased. This means homeowners are not taxed out of 
their homes when property values increase. Stephens-Day saved local 
residents hundreds or even thousands of dollars a year.
  I am proud to recognize today Mr. Day's time in public service and 
his contributions to the people of Georgia.


                         Gold Star Spouses Day

  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to call your 
attention to the upcoming Gold Star Spouses Day occurring on April 5, 
2017, and to ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing those who have 
given so much for our country.
  Gold Star Spouses are widows and widowers who have lost loved ones 
during their service to our Nation's Armed Forces. Through this group, 
members find comfort, understanding, and an unparalleled support 
system.
  On April 5, we all have the opportunity to honor both fallen American 
heroes and surviving military spouses.

                          ____________________



