

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1397-S1398]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 21

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr. 
Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 21, a bill to amend chapter 8 
of title 5, United States Code, to provide that major rules of the 
executive branch shall have no force or effect unless a joint 
resolution of approval is enacted into law.


                                 S. 26

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 26, a bill to amend the 
Ethics in Government Act of 1978 to require the disclosure of certain 
tax returns by Presidents and certain candidates for the office of the 
President, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 85

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 85, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the amendments made by the 
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act which disqualify expenses 
for over-the-counter drugs under health savings accounts and health 
flexible spending arrangements.


                                 S. 109

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds), the Senator from West Virginia (Mr. Manchin) and 
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Roberts) were added as cosponsors of S. 
109, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide 
for coverage under the Medicare program of pharmacist services.


                                 S. 128

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 128, a bill to provide 
provisional protected presence to qualified individuals who came to the 
United States as children.


                                 S. 143

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 143, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow a credit against income tax for 
amounts paid by a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces for a new 
State license or certification required by reason of a permanent change 
in the duty station of such member to another State.


                                 S. 203

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr. 
Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 203, a bill to reaffirm that 
the Environmental Protection Agency may not regulate vehicles used 
solely for competition, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 245

  At the request of Mr. Hoeven, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 245, a bill to amend the 
Indian Tribal Energy Development and Self Determination Act of 2005, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 294

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 294, a bill to amend the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to clarify the Food and Drug 
Administration's jurisdiction over certain tobacco products, and to 
protect jobs and small businesses involved in the sale, manufacturing 
and distribution of traditional and premium cigars.


                                 S. 377

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Portman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 377, a bill to amend the 
Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 to clarify report dates, 
modify the criteria for determinations of whether countries are meeting 
the minimum standards for elimination of trafficking, and highlight the 
importance of concrete actions by countries to eliminate trafficking, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 379

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 379, a bill to amend title II 
of the Social Security Act to eliminate the five month waiting period 
for disability insurance benefits under such title for individuals with 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.


                                 S. 394

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 394, a bill to amend 
chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, to provide that a member of 
the Armed Forces and the spouse of that member shall have the same 
rights regarding the receipt of firearms at the location of any duty 
station of the member.


                                 S. 399

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 399, a bill to 
establish the United States Chief Manufacturing Officer in the 
Executive Office of the President with the responsibility of developing 
a national manufacturing strategy to revitalize the manufacturing 
sector, spur economic growth, and expand United States competitiveness, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 410

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 410, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to authorize the transfer of unused Post-9/11 
Educational Assistance benefits to additional dependents upon the death 
of the originally designated dependent.


                                 S. 411

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 411, a bill to 
eliminate racial, religious, and other discriminatory profiling by law 
enforcement, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 420

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 420, a bill to require the 
President to report on the use by the Government of Iran of commercial 
aircraft and related services for illicit military or other activities, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 422

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the names of the Senator from 
Alaska (Mr. Sullivan) and the Senator from Nevada (Mr. Heller) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 422, a bill to amend title 38, United States 
Code, to clarify presumptions relating to the exposure of

[[Page S1398]]

certain veterans who served in the vicinity of the Republic of Vietnam, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 426

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Mr. Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 426, a bill to increase 
educational assistance provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs 
for education and training of physician assistants of the Department, 
to establish pay grades and require competitive pay for physician 
assistants of the Department, and for other purposes.


                               S. RES. 18

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 18, a resolution reaffirming 
the United States-Argentina partnership and recognizing Argentina's 
economic reforms.


                               S. RES. 60

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 60, a resolution designating 
May 5, 2017, as the ``National Day of Awareness for Missing and 
Murdered Native Women and Girls''.

                          ____________________



