

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H792-H793]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         FIRST RESPONDER ACCESS TO INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGIES ACT

  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 687) to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to establish 
a process to review applications for certain grants to purchase 
equipment or systems that do not meet or exceed any applicable national 
voluntary consensus standards, and for other purposes.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                H.R. 687

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``First Responder Access to 
     Innovative Technologies Act''.

     SEC. 2. APPROVAL OF CERTAIN EQUIPMENT.

       (a) In General.--Section 2008 of the Homeland Security Act 
     of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 609) is amended--
       (1) in subsection (f)--
       (A) by striking ``If an applicant'' and inserting the 
     following:
       ``(1) Application requirement.--If an applicant''; and
       (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
       ``(2) Review process.--The Administrator shall implement a 
     uniform process for reviewing applications that, in 
     accordance with paragraph (1), contain explanations to use 
     grants provided under section 2003 or 2004 to purchase 
     equipment or systems that do not meet or exceed any 
     applicable national voluntary consensus standards developed 
     under section 647 of the Post-Katrina Emergency Management 
     Reform Act of 2006.
       ``(3) Factors.--In carrying out the review process under 
     paragraph (2), the Administrator shall consider the 
     following:
       ``(A) Current or past use of proposed equipment or systems 
     by Federal agencies or the Armed Forces.
       ``(B) The absence of a national voluntary consensus 
     standard for such equipment or systems.
       ``(C) The existence of an international consensus standard 
     for such equipment or systems, and whether such equipment or 
     systems meets such standard.
       ``(D) The nature of the capability gap identified by the 
     applicant and how such equipment or systems will address such 
     gap.
       ``(E) The degree to which such equipment or systems will 
     serve the needs of the applicant better than equipment or 
     systems that meet or exceed existing consensus standards.
       ``(F) Any other factor determined appropriate by the 
     Administrator.''; and
       (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
       ``(g) Review Process.--The Administrator shall implement a 
     uniform process for reviewing applications to use grants 
     provided under section 2003 or 2004 to purchase equipment or 
     systems not included on the Authorized Equipment List 
     maintained by the Administrator.''.
       (b) Inspector General Report.--Not later than three years 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Inspector 
     General of the Department of Homeland Security shall submit 
     to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
     Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report assessing the 
     implementation of the review process established under 
     paragraph (2) of subsection (f) of section 2008 of the 
     Homeland Security Act of 2002 (as added by subsection (a) of 
     this section), including information on the following:
       (1) The number of requests to purchase equipment or systems 
     that do not meet or exceed any applicable consensus standard 
     evaluated under such review process.
       (2) The capability gaps identified by applicants and the 
     number of such requests granted or denied.
       (3) The processing time for the review of such requests.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. Donovan) and the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Payne) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New York.


                             General Leave

  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks 
and include any extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from New York?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  As chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Response, 
and Communications, I rise today in support of H.R. 687. This 
legislation would establish a review process for grant applicants 
seeking to purchase equipment or systems that do not meet or exceed 
national voluntary consensus standards.
  With threats consistently evolving, it is reassuring to see new 
technology emerge which will promote the safety of our communities and 
first responders. However, emerging technology is frequently developed 
faster than voluntary consensus standards can be implemented.
  Recipients of grants under FEMA's State Homeland Security Grant 
Program and the Urban Area Security Initiative must procure equipment 
that meets these standards. Unfortunately, if emerging technology or 
equipment does not have a voluntary consensus standard and a grant 
recipient would like to use those funds to purchase such technology, 
FEMA does not have a uniform process to consider applications for that 
equipment.
  H.R. 687 requires FEMA to develop such a process for reviewing these 
requests. Previously, this bill was introduced in the 114th Congress by 
the subcommittee's ranking member, Mr. Payne, and subsequently received 
bipartisan support by my subcommittee and the Committee on Homeland 
Security as well as the House when it was passed under suspension of 
the rules in September of 2016.
  I thank the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Payne) for reintroducing 
this commonsense bill. I am proud to be an original cosponsor of H.R. 
687 because it will ensure our first responders have the ability to 
purchase equipment and emerging technology needed to effectively adapt 
to the current threat landscape.
  Earlier this month, the Committee on Homeland Security released the 
January Terror Threat Snapshot, which found that the United States 
remains a top target for terrorists. It is clear that the threat to our 
communities is not going away.
  Congress has the responsibility to make America safer and stronger. 
We can do so by ensuring commonsense measures are in place to ensure 
first responders have the tools that they need to address these 
threats.
  I urge all Members to join me in supporting H.R. 687.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I rise in support of H.R. 687, the First Responder Access to 
Innovative Technologies Act.
  Mr. Speaker, in my time serving as ranking member of the Committee on 
Homeland Security's Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Response, 
and Communications, I have come to learn a great deal about the very 
important, very challenging job of first responders. These brave men 
and women run toward danger with our safety as their number one 
priority.
  Since the September 11 attacks, the private sector has redoubled its 
efforts to develop innovative technologies for first responders to use 
and to carry out their vital missions.
  Yet, through our subcommittee's oversight, we have seen where, in 
some instances, industry standards have

[[Page H793]]

failed to keep the pace with breakthroughs in technology. As a result, 
we have found that first responders cannot always access the most up-
to-date equipment because they cannot use Homeland Security grant funds 
to purchase equipment and technology that does not meet or exceed 
voluntary industry standards.
  H.R. 687 would require FEMA to develop a transparent process for 
reviewing requests to use grant funds to purchase technologies that do 
not meet or exceed voluntary industry standards and/or that are not on 
the authorized equipment list.
  The bill has the support of the Security Industry Association and 
unanimously passed the House last September. Mr. Speaker, I include in 
the Record a letter from the Security Industry Association.

                                Security Industry Association,

                              Silver Spring, MD, January 27, 2017.
     Hon. Dan Donovan,
     Chairman, House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency 
         Preparedness, Response and Communications, Washington, 
         DC.
     Hon. Donald Payne,
     Ranking Member, House Homeland Security Subcommittee on 
         Emergency Preparedness, Response and Communications, 
         Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Donovan and Ranking Member Payne: On behalf 
     of the Security Industry Association (SIA), I would like to 
     express our strong support for H.R. 687, the First Responder 
     Access to Innovative Technologies Act, which would streamline 
     the existing process for first responders utilizing homeland 
     security grants to purchase innovative equipment. SIA is a 
     non-profit international trade association representing 
     nearly 700 global security and life safety solutions 
     providers, and our members develop, manufacture and integrate 
     equipment that is vital to carrying out a variety of homeland 
     security missions.
       Under current law, equipment purchased with homeland 
     security grants must meet or exceed ``national voluntary 
     consensus standards,'' unless an explanation as to why an 
     exception is necessary is provided to, reviewed and approved 
     by the Department. For some products, including first 
     responder equipment, technology innovations have outpaced the 
     process of developing voluntary consensus standards, and no 
     such standards may yet exist. Among other provisions, H.R. 
     687 directs FEMA to develop a more consistent and transparent 
     process for reviewing these requests, which would expedite 
     consideration and provide more certainty to stakeholders.
       Like you, we believe that first responders must be able to 
     choose the most appropriate and advanced equipment to meet 
     urgent and changing needs as they work to protect the public. 
     SIA and its members stand ready to serve as a resource to you 
     as you continue work on this critical issue. Thank you for 
     your leadership and attention to this important matter.
           Sincerely,
                                                     Don Erickson,
                               CEO, Security Industry Association.

                              {time}  1600

  Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, our first responders are on the front lines 
of emergency response. In recognition of their bravery and sacrifices 
they make every day, in and out, we must make sure that they have the 
access to the most up-to-date technologies to help them do their jobs 
better and safer. To that end, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 
687.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I once again urge my colleagues to support H.R. 687, and 
I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia). The question 
is on the motion offered by the gentleman from New York (Mr. Donovan) 
that the House suspend the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 687.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



