

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 11 (Friday, January 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 11 (Friday, January 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S362-S365]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           INAUGURAL CEREMONY

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr.President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
Inaugural Ceremony proceedings be printed in the Record.
  There being noobjection, the proceedings of the Inaugural Ceremony 
were ordered to be printed in the Record, as follows:

                           INAUGURAL CEREMONY

       Inauguration of Donald John Trump, January 20, 2017, 11:33 
     a.m.
       The Architect of the Capitol, Stephen T. Ayers, accompanied 
     by Mrs. Jennifer Ayers, assembled on the President's 
     platform.
       The leadership of the 58th Presidential Inaugural 
     Committee, Chairman Tom Barrack, Chief Executive Officer Sara 
     Armstrong,and Deputy Chairman Rick Gates, assembled on the 
     President's platform.
       Former Senate Majority Leaders Robert Dole, TrentLott, and 
     Bill Frist, accompanied by Mrs. Elizabeth Dole, Mrs. Tricia 
     Lott, and Mrs. Karyn Frist, assembled on the 
     President'splatform.
       Former Speakers of the House of Representatives Newt 
     Gingrich and John Boehner, accompanied by Mrs. 
     CallistaGingrich and Mrs. Debbie Boehner, assembled on the 
     President's platform.
       The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen.Joseph F. 
     Dunford, Jr., and Mrs. Ellyn Dunford, accompanied by the 
     Joint Chiefs of Staff, assembled on the President's platform.
       Former Vice Presidents Dan Quayle and Dick Cheney, 
     accompanied by Mrs. Marilyn Quayle and Mrs. Lynne Cheney, 
     assembled onthe President's platform.
       Members of the 115th House of Representatives of the United 
     States, led by Majority Whip SteveScalise and Democratic Whip 
     Steny Hoyer, assembled on the President's platform.
       The Governors of the United States and itsterritories and 
     the Mayor of the District of Columbia assembled on the 
     President's platform.
       Members of the 115th Senate ofthe United States assembled 
     on the President's platform.
       The President-elect's Cabinet and agency designees 
     assembled on thePresident's platform.
       Their Excellencies, the Chiefs of Diplomatic Missions, led 
     by the Acting Dean of the diplomatic corps,His Excellency 
     Serge Mombouli, assembled on the President's platform.
       The Chief Justice of the United States, the HonorableJohn 
     G. Roberts, Jr., and the Associate Justices assembled on the 
     President's platform.
       The 39th President of the UnitedStates, Jimmy Carter, and 
     Mrs. Rosalynn Carter assembled on the President's platform.
       The 42nd President of the UnitedStates, William Jefferson 
     Clinton, and the Honorable Hillary Rodham Clinton, assembled 
     on the President's platform.
       The 43rdPresident of the United States, George W. Bush, and 
     Mrs. Laura Bush assembled on the President's platform.
       The children ofVice President-Elect Pence, 2nd Lt. Michael 
     Pence, Charlotte Pence, and Audrey Pence, accompanied by 
     Assistant Secretary of theSenate Mary Suit Jones and Deputy 
     Clerk of the House of Representatives Robert Reeves, 
     assembled on the President's platform.
       The children of President-Elect Trump, Donald Trump, Jr., 
     Ivanka Trump, Eric Trump, Tiffany Trump, and Barron 
     Trump,accompanied by Senate Majority Secretary Laura Dove and 
     House of Representatives Chief Administrative Officer Phillip 
     G. Kiko,assembled on the President's platform.
       The First Lady, Mrs. Michelle Obama, and the wife of the 
     Vice President, Dr. JillBiden, accompanied by the Democratic 
     staff director of the United States Senate Committee on Rules 
     and Administration, KellyFado, Ms. Iris Weinshall, and Mr. 
     Paul Pelosi, assembled on the President's platform.
       Mrs. Melania Trump and Mrs. KarenPence, accompanied by the 
     Secretary of the Senate, Julie E. Adams; the Clerk of the 
     House of Representatives, Karen Haas; Mrs.Abigail Blunt; Mrs. 
     Janna Ryan; the Honorable Elaine L. Chao; and Mrs. Judy 
     McCarthy, assembled on the President's platform.
       The President of the United States, the Honorable Barack H. 
     Obama, and the Vice President, Joseph R. Biden, Jr., 
     accompaniedby Senate Democratic Secretary Gary Myrick, Senate 
     Democratic Leader and Rules Committee Ranking Member Senator 
     Charles E.Schumer, and House Democratic Leader Representative 
     Nancy Pelosi, assembled on the President's platform.
       The Vice President-elect of the United States, Michael R. 
     Pence, accompanied by the Inaugural Coordinator for the Joint 
     Congressional Committee onInaugural Ceremonies, Maria Miller 
     Lohmeyer; the Senate Deputy Sergeant at Arms, James Morhard; 
     the House Deputy Sergeant atArms, Tim Blodgett; and Senator 
     Patrick Leahy, assembled on the President's platform.
       The President-elect of the UnitedStates, Donald J. Trump, 
     accompanied by the staff director for the Joint Congressional 
     Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies, Stacy

[[Page S363]]

     McHatton McBride; the Senate Sergeant at Arms, Frank J. 
     Larkin; the House Sergeant at Arms, Paul Irving; the chairman 
     ofthe Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies, 
     Senator Roy Blunt; the Rules Committee Ranking Member and 
     SenateDemocratic Leader, Senator Charles E. Schumer; the 
     Speaker of the House of Representatives, Representative Paul 
     Ryan; the Senatemajority leader, Senator Mitch McConnell; the 
     House majority leader, Representative Kevin McCarthy; and the 
     House Democraticleader, Representative Nancy Pelosi, 
     assembled on the President's platform.
       Mr. BLUNT. Thank you all. If you have a seat, you can sit 
     down.
       Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President-elect, Mr. 
     Vice President-elect, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the 
     inauguration of the 45th President of the United States 
     ofAmerica.
       Today, the legislative, the executive, and the judicial 
     branches of our constitutional government come together 
     forthe inauguration of the 45th President of the United 
     States. Millions of people all over the world will watch and 
     will listen tothis event.
       (Applause.)
       Thirty-six years ago, at his first inauguration--it was 
     also the first inauguration on this sideof the Capitol--
     President Ronald Reagan said that what we do here is both 
     commonplace and miraculous--commonplace every 4 yearssince 
     1789, when President George Washington took this exact same 
     oath; miraculous because we have done it every 4 years 
     since1789 and the example it sets for democracies everywhere. 
     Washington believed the inauguration of the second President 
     would bemore important than the inauguration of the first. 
     Many people had taken control of a government up until then, 
     but few peoplehad ever turned that control willingly over to 
     anyone else.
       As important as the first transfer of power was, many 
     historiansbelieve that the next election was even more 
     important, when in 1801 one group of people--arguably, for 
     the first time ever inhistory--willingly, if not 
     enthusiastically, gave control of the government to people 
     they believed had a dramatically differentview of what the 
     government would, should, and could do.
       After an election that actually discovered a flaw in 
     theConstitution itself, which was remedied by the 12th 
     Amendment, Thomas Jefferson at that inauguration, beyond the 
     chaos of theelection that had just passed, said: ``We are all 
     Republicans; we are all Federalists.''
       After 4 years of Civil War,Lincoln's second inaugural 
     speech tried to find reason for the continued war when he 
     pointed out that both sides ``prayed to thesame God.'' He had 
     earlier written about those fervent prayers that ``one side 
     must be and both sides may be wrong,'' but in1865 he looked 
     to the future--and the memorable moment in that speech was--
     ``with malice toward none and charity for all.''
       Inthe middle of the Depression, the country was told that 
     the only thing we had to fear was fear itself. President 
     Kennedy talkedabout the obligation in a democracy to country. 
     The great question that day was ``ask what you can do for 
     your country.'' So wecome to this place again, commonplace 
     and miraculous, a national moment of celebration but not a 
     celebration of victory, acelebration of democracy.
       (Applause.)
       As we begin that celebration, I call on His Eminence 
     Timothy Michael CardinalDolan, Reverend Dr. Samuel Rodriguez, 
     and Pastor Paula White-Cain to provide readings and the 
     invocation.
       Cardinal DOLAN.The prayer of King Solomon from the Book of 
     Wisdom.
       Let us pray.
       God of our ancestors and Lord of mercy, You have madeall 
     things, and in Your providence have charged us to rule the 
     creatures produced by You, to govern the world in holiness 
     andrighteousness and to render judgment with integrity of 
     heart. Give us wisdom, for we are Your servants, weak and 
     short lived,lacking in comprehension of judgment and of laws. 
     Indeed, though one might be perfect among mortals, if wisdom 
     which comes fromYou be lacking, we count for nothing. Now 
     with You is wisdom who knows Your will and was there when You 
     made the world, whounderstands what is pleasing in Your eyes, 
     what is conformable with Your commands. Send her forth from 
     Your holy heavens. FromYour glorious throne dispatch her that 
     she may be with us and work with us that we may grasp what is 
     pleasing to You, for sheknows and understands all things and 
     will guide us prudently in our affairs and safeguard us by 
     her glory. Amen.
       ReverendRODRIGUEZ. From the Gospel of Matthew, the fifth 
     chapter:
       God blesses those who are poor and realize their need for 
     Him, forthe kingdom of heaven is theirs. God blesses those 
     who mourn for they will be comforted. God blesses those who 
     are humble, forthey will inherit the Earth. God blesses those 
     who hunger and thirst for justice, for they will be 
     satisfied. God blesses thosewho are merciful, for they will 
     be shown mercy. He blesses those who are pure in heart, for 
     they will see God. God blesses thosewho work for peace, for 
     they will be called children of God. God blesses those who 
     are persecuted for doing right, for theKingdom of Heaven is 
     theirs. And God blesses you when people mock you and 
     persecute you and lie about you and say all sorts ofevil 
     things against you because you are my followers, for you are 
     the light of the world, like a city on a hilltop that 
     cannotbe hidden. No one lights a lamp and then puts it under 
     a basket. Instead, a lamp is placed on its stand where it 
     gives light toeveryone in the house. In the same way, let 
     your good deeds shine out for all to see, that everyone will 
     praise your heavenlyFather.
       Respectfully in Jesus's name.
       Pastor WHITE-CAIN. We come to You, Heavenly Father, in the 
     Name of Jesus, withgrateful hearts, thanking You for this 
     great country that You have decreed to Your people. We 
     acknowledge we are a blessednation with a rich history of 
     faith and fortitude, with a future that is filled with 
     promise and purpose. We recognize thatevery good and every 
     perfect gift comes from You and the United States of America 
     is Your gift, for which we proclaim ourgratitude.
       As a nation, we now pray for our President, Donald John 
     Trump, Vice President Michael Richard Pence, and 
     theirfamilies. We ask that You would bestow upon our 
     President the wisdom necessary to lead this great Nation, the 
     grace to unify us,and the strength to stand for what is 
     honorable and right in Your sight.
       In Proverbs 21:1, You instruct us that our leader'sheart is 
     in Your hands. Gracious God, reveal to our President the 
     ability to know Your will, the confidence to lead us 
     injustice and righteousness, and the compassion to yield to 
     our better angels.
       While we know there are many challenges beforeus, in every 
     generation You have provided us the strength and power to 
     become that blessed Nation. Guide us in discernment,Lord, and 
     give us that strength to persevere and thrive. Now bind and 
     heal our wounds and divisions and join our Nation to 
     Yourpurpose.
       ``Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done,'' the Psalmist 
     declared. Let Your favor be upon this one nation under 
     God.Let these United States of America be that beacon of hope 
     to all people and nations under Your dominion, a true hope 
     forhumankind.
       Glory to the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.
       We pray this in the Name of Jesus Christ.Amen.
       (Performance by the Missouri State University Chorale.)
       (Applause.)
       Mr. BLUNT.Well, the Missouri State University Chorale 
     practices and performs about two blocks from my home in 
     Springfield, MO. So it waseasy to find them. We are pleased 
     they are here.
       It is also a great opportunity for me to introduce my 
     colleague, theSenator from New York, Chuck Schumer.
       Mr. SCHUMER. My fellow Americans, we live in achallenging 
     and tumultuous time--a quickly evolving, evermore 
     interconnected world; a rapidly changing economy that 
     benefits toofew while leaving too many behind; a fractured 
     media; a politics frequently consumed by rancor. We face 
     threats foreign anddomestic. In such times, faith in our 
     government, our institutions, and even our country can erode. 
     Despite these challenges, Istand here today confident in this 
     great country for one reason: you, the American people.
       (Applause.)
       We Americans havealways been a forward-looking, problem-
     solving, optimistic, patriotic, and decent people. Whatever 
     our race, religion, sexualorientation, gender identity, 
     whether we are immigrant or native-born, whether we live with 
     disabilities or do not, in wealth orin poverty, we are all 
     exceptional in our commonly held yet fierce devotion to our 
     country and in our willingness to sacrificeour time, energy, 
     and even our lives to making it a more perfect union.
       Today, we celebrate one of democracies coreattributes--the 
     peaceful transfer of power. Every day, we stand up for core 
     democratic principles enshrined in the Constitution;the rule 
     of law; equal protection for all under the law; the freedom 
     of speech, press, religion--the things that make 
     America``America.'' We can gain strength from reading our 
     history and listening to the voices of average Americans. 
     They always save usin times of strife.
       (Applause.)
       One such American was MAJ Sullivan Ballou. On July 14, 
     1861, when the North and Southwere lining up for their first 
     battle, a time when our country was bitterly divided and 
     faith in the future of our country wasat a nadir, Major 
     Ballou of the 2nd Rhode Island volunteers penned a letter to 
     his wife Sarah.
       It is one of the greatestletters in American history. It 
     shows the strength and courage of the average American. Allow 
     me to read some of his words whichecho through the ages.
       My very dear Sarah [he wrote], the indications are very 
     strong that we should move in a fewdays--perhaps tomorrow.
       If it is necessary that I should fall on the battlefield 
     for my country, I am ready. I have nomisgivings about, or 
     lack of confidence in, the cause in which I am engaged, and 
     my courage does not halt or falter.
       I knowhow strongly American Civilization now leans upon the 
     triumph of the Government, and how great a debt we owe to 
     those who wentbefore us through the blood and suffering of 
     the Revolution. And I am willing--perfectly willing--to lay 
     down all my joys in thislife, to help maintain this 
     Government and to pay that debt.
       Sarah, my love for you is deathless, it seems to bind me to 
     youwith mighty cables that nothing but Omnipotence could 
     break; and yet my love of country comes over me like a strong 
     wind andbears me irresistibly on with all these chains to the 
     battlefield.

[[Page S364]]

       Sullivan Ballou gave his life on the battlefield aweek 
     later at the first Battle of Bull Run. It is because Sullivan 
     Ballou and countless others believed in something bigger 
     thanthemselves and were willing to sacrifice for it that we 
     stand today in the full blessings of liberty in the greatest 
     country onEarth. That spirit lives on in each of us, 
     Americans whose families have been here for generations and 
     those who have justarrived. I know our best days are yet to 
     come. I urge all Americans to read Ballou's full letter. His 
     words give me solace andstrength. I hope they will give you 
     the same.
       (Applause.)
       Now, please stand while the Associate Justice of the 
     SupremeCourt, Clarence Thomas, administers the oath of office 
     to the Vice President of the United States.
       Associate JusticeCLARENCE THOMAS administered to the Vice 
     President-elect the oath of office prescribed by the 
     Constitution, which he repeated,as follows:
       I, MICHAEL RICHARD PENCE, do solemnly swear that I will 
     support and defend the Constitution of the United 
     Statesagainst all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will 
     bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this 
     obligationfreely, without any mental reservation or purpose 
     of evasion, and that I will well and faithfully discharge the 
     duties of theoffice on which I am about to enter. So help me 
     God.
       Associate Justice THOMAS. God bless you.
       (Applause.)
       (Performance by the Mormon Tabernacle Choir, accompanied by 
     the United States Marine Band.)
       (Applause.)
       Mr. BLUNT. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honor to 
     introduce the Chief Justice of the United States, John 
     G.Roberts, Jr.
       The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, JOHN G. ROBERTS, 
     JR., administered to the President-elect the oath ofoffice 
     prescribed by the Constitution, which he repeated, as 
     follows:
       I, DONALD JOHN TRUMP, do solemnly swear that I 
     willfaithfully execute the office of President of the United 
     States and will, to the best of my ability, preserve, 
     protect, anddefend the Constitution of the United States. So 
     help me God.
       The Chief Justice. Congratulations, Mr. President.
       (Applause.)
       Mr. BLUNT. What a great honor to be able to introduce for 
     the first time ever,anywhere, the 45th President of the 
     United States of America, Donald J. Trump.
       (Applause.)
       ThePRESIDENT. Chief Justice Roberts, President Carter, 
     President Clinton, President Bush, President Obama, fellow 
     Americans, andpeople of the world, thank you. We, the 
     citizens of America, are now joined in a great national 
     effort to rebuild our countryand restore its promise for all 
     of our people. Together we will determine the course of 
     America and the world for many, manyyears to come.
       We will face challenges. We will confront hardships, but we 
     will get the job done.
       Every 4 years wegather on these steps to carry out the 
     orderly and peaceful transfer of power. And we are grateful 
     to President Obama and FirstLady Michelle Obama for their 
     gracious aid throughout this transition. They have been 
     magnificent.
       Thank you.
       (Applause.)
       Today's ceremony, however, has very special meaning because 
     today we are not merely transferring power fromone 
     administration to another or from one party to another, but 
     we are transferring power from Washington, DC, and giving 
     itback to you, the people.
       For too long, a small group in our Nation's Capital has 
     reaped the rewards of government while thepeople have borne 
     the cost. Washington flourished, but the people did not share 
     in its wealth. Politicians prospered, but thejobs left and 
     the factories closed. The establishment protected itself, but 
     not the citizens of our country. Their victorieshave not been 
     your victories. Their triumphs have not been your triumphs, 
     and while they celebrated in our Nation's Capital,there was 
     little to celebrate for struggling families all across our 
     land.
       That all changes starting right here and rightnow, because 
     this moment is your moment. It belongs to you. It belongs to 
     everyone gathered here today and everyone watching allacross 
     America. This is your day. This is your celebration. This, 
     the United States of America, is your country.
       (Applause.)
       What truly matters is not which party controls our 
     government but whether our government is controlled by the 
     people.January 20, 2017, will be remembered as the day the 
     people became the rulers of this Nation again.
       (Applause.)
       Theforgotten men and women of our country will be forgotten 
     no longer. Everyone is listening to you now. You came by the 
     tens ofmillions to become part of a historic movement, the 
     likes of which the world has never seen before. At the center 
     of this momentis a crucial conviction that a nation exists to 
     serve its citizens. Americans want great schools for their 
     children, safeneighborhoods for their families, and good jobs 
     for themselves.
       (Applause.)
       These are just and reasonable demands ofrighteous people 
     and a righteous public. But for too many of our citizens, a 
     different reality exists: mothers and childrentrapped in 
     poverty in our inner cities, rusted-out factories scattered 
     like tombstones across the landscape of our Nation, 
     aneducation system flush with cash but which leaves our young 
     and beautiful students deprived of all knowledge, the crime 
     and thegangs and the drugs that have stolen too many lives 
     and robbed our country of so much unrealized potential.
       This Americancarnage stops right here and stops right now. 
     We are one Nation and their pain is our pain. Their dreams 
     are our dreams. Theirsuccess will be our success. We share 
     one heart, one home, and one glorious destiny. The oath of 
     office I take today is an oathof allegiance to all Americans. 
     For many decades we have enriched foreign industry at the 
     expense of American industry,subsidized the armies of other 
     countries, while allowing for the very sad depletion of our 
     military.
       We have defended othernations' borders, while refusing to 
     defend our own, and spent trillions and trillions of dollars 
     overseas while America'sinfrastructure has fallen into 
     disrepair and decay. We have made other countries rich while 
     the wealth, strength, and confidenceof our country has 
     dissipated over the horizon.
       One by one, the factories shuttered and left our shores, 
     with not even athought about the millions and millions of 
     American workers that were left behind. The wealth of our 
     middle class has beenripped from their homes and then 
     redistributed all across the world.
       But that is the past. Now, we are looking only to 
     thefuture. We assembled here today are issuing a new decree 
     to be heard in every city, in every foreign capital, and in 
     every hallof power. From this day forward, a new vision will 
     govern our land. From this day forward, it is going to be 
     only Americafirst--America first. Every decision on trade, on 
     taxes, on immigration, on foreign affairs will be made to 
     benefit Americanworkers and American families.
       (Applause.)
       We must protect our borders from the ravages of other 
     countries making ourproducts, stealing our companies, and 
     destroying our jobs. Protection will lead to great prosperity 
     and strength. I will fightfor you with every breath in my 
     body, and I will never, ever let you down. America will start 
     winning again, winning like never before. We will bring back 
     our jobs. We will bring back our borders. We will bring 
     back our wealth. Wewill bring back our dreams.
       (Applause.)
       We will build new roads and highways and bridges and 
     airports and tunnels andrailways all across our wonderful 
     Nation. We will get our people off of welfare and back to 
     work rebuilding our country withAmerican hands and American 
     labor. We will follow two simple rules: Buy American and hire 
     American.
       (Applause.)
       We willseek friendship and good will with the nations of 
     the world, but we do so with the understanding that it is the 
     right of allnations to put their own interests first.
       We do not seek to impose our way of life on anyone but 
     rather to let it shine asan example. We will shine for 
     everyone to follow. We will reinforce old alliances and form 
     new ones and unite the civilizedworld against radical Islamic 
     terrorism, which we will eradicate completely from the face 
     of the Earth.
       (Applause.)
       Atthe bedrock of our politics will be a total allegiance to 
     the United States of America, and through our loyalty to our 
     country,we will rediscover our loyalty to each other. When 
     you open your heart to patriotism, there is no room for 
     prejudice. The Bibletells us how good and pleasant it is when 
     God's people live together in unity. We must speak our minds 
     openly, debate ourdisagreements honestly, but always pursue 
     solidarity.
       (Applause.)
       When America is united, America is totally 
     unstoppable.There should be no fear. We are protected, and we 
     will always be protected. We will be protected by the great 
     men and women ofour military and law enforcement and, most 
     importantly, we will be protected by God.
       (Applause.)
       Finally, we must thinkbig and dream even bigger. In 
     America, we understand that a nation is only living as long 
     as it is striving.
       We will nolonger accept politicians who are all talk and no 
     action, constantly complaining but never doing anything about 
     it. The time forempty talk is over. Now arrives the hour of 
     action. Do not allow anyone to tell you that it cannot be 
     done. No challenge canmatch the heart and fight and spirit of 
     America. We will not fail. Our country will thrive and 
     prosper again.
       (Applause.)
       We stand at the birth of a new millennium, ready to unlock 
     the mysteries of space, to free the Earth from the miseries 
     ofdisease, and to harness the energies, industries, and 
     technologies of tomorrow. A new national pride will stir our 
     soul, liftour sights, and heal our divisions.
       (Applause.)
       It is time to remember that old wisdom our soldiers will 
     neverforget--that whether we are Black or Brown or White, we 
     all bleed the same red blood of patriots. We all enjoy the 
     same gloriousfreedoms, and we all salute the same great 
     American flag.
       (Applause.)
       Whether a child is born in the urban sprawl ofDetroit or 
     the windswept plains of Nebraska, they look up at the same 
     night sky,

[[Page S365]]

     they fill their heart with the samedreams, and they are 
     infused with the breath of life by the same Almighty Creator.
       So to all Americans in every city nearand far, small and 
     large, from mountain to mountain, from ocean to ocean, hear 
     these words. You will never be ignored again.Your voice, your 
     hopes, and your dreams will define our American destiny, and 
     your courage and goodness and love will foreverguide us along 
     the way. Together, we will make America strong again. We will 
     make America wealthy again. We will make Americaproud again. 
     We will make America safe again. And, yes, together we will 
     make America great again.
       Thank you. God bless you,and God bless America. Thank you.
       (Applause.)
       Mr. BLUNT. At this time I call on Rabbi MarvinHier, the 
     Reverend Franklin Graham, and Bishop Wayne T. Jackson to 
     provide readings and the benediction.
       Rabbi HIER. EternalGod, bless President Donald J. Trump and 
     America, our great Nation. Guide us to remember the words of 
     the Psalmist:
       Who maydwell on Your holy mountain? One who does what is 
     right and speaks the truth, who knows that when you eat the 
     labor of yourhands, you are praiseworthy that he who sows in 
     tears shall reap in joy, because the freedoms we enjoy are 
     not granted inperpetuity, but must be reclaimed by each 
     generation. As our ancestors have planted for us, so we must 
     plant for others. Whileit is not for us to complete the 
     tasks, neither are we free to desist from them.
       Dispense justice to the needy and theorphan, for they have 
     no one but their fellow citizens, and because a nation's 
     wealth is measured by her values and not by hervaults. Bless 
     all of our allies around the world who share our beliefs.
       By the rivers of Babylon we wept as we rememberedZion. If I 
     forget thee O Jerusalem, may my right hand forget its skill. 
     The doer of all these shall never falter. May the dayscome 
     soon when justice will dwell in the wilderness and 
     righteousness will abide in the fertile fields, and the work 
     ofrighteousness will be peace, quietness, and confidence 
     forever. Amen.
       Reverend GRAHAM.Mr. President, in the Bible, rain is a sign 
     of God's blessing. And it started to rain, Mr. President, 
     when you came to theplatform. It is my prayer that God will 
     bless you, your family, your administration, and may He bless 
     America.
       The passageof Scripture comes from 1 Timothy, chapter 2:
       I urge them, first of all, that petitions, prayers, 
     intercession, andthanksgiving be made for all people. For 
     kings, for all those in authority, that we may live 
     peacefully quiet lives in allGodliness and Holiness. This is 
     good and it pleases God our Savior, who wants all people to 
     be saved and come to a knowledge ofthe truth. For there is 
     one God, and one Mediator between God and mankind, the man 
     Christ Jesus who gave Himself as a ransom forall people. Now 
     to the King Eternal, Immortal, Invisible, the only God, be 
     honor and glory forever and ever.
       In Jesus'sName. Amen.
       Bishop JACKSON. We thank You, Father, for letting us share 
     this great moment together. Let us not take forgranted the 
     air we breathe or the life You have given us. We were all 
     created by You with one blood, all nations to dwell uponthis 
     land together. We are not enemies. We are brothers and 
     sisters. We are not adversaries, but we are allies. We are 
     not foes,but we are friends. Let us be healed by the power of 
     Your love and united by the bond of Your Spirit.
       Today we pray for our45th President, the Vice President, 
     and their families, and give them the wisdom to guide this 
     great Nation, the strength toprotect it, and the hands to 
     heal it. We bless President Donald J. Trump. We ask that You 
     give him the wisdom of Solomon, thevision of Joseph, and the 
     meekness of Christ--Solomon who kept peace among many 
     nations, Joseph who dreamt better for the people,and Christ 
     who accepted us all.
       O Lord, mend our hearts and stitch together the fabric of 
     this great country in the spiritof the legendary gospel 
     singer Mahalia Jackson:
       Oh, deep in my heart, I do believe. The Lord will see us 
     through, I dobelieve. We are on our way to victory, I do 
     believe. We will walk hand in hand, I do believe. We shall 
     live in peace, I dobelieve. Oh, deep in my heart, I do 
     believe.
       America, we shall overcome. May the Lord bless and keep 
     America, make His faceshine upon us and be gracious unto us 
     and give us peace.
       In the mighty Name of Jesus. Amen.
       (Performance of the NationalAnthem by Jackie Evancho and 
     the United States Marine Band.)
       (The Inaugural Ceremony was concluded at 12:27 p.m.)

                          ____________________



