

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 28 (Thursday, February 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1398-S1399]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  SENATE RESOLUTION 66--SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF CAREER AND 
                       TECHNICAL EDUCATION MONTH

  Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mr. Portman, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Young, Mr. 
Bennet, Mr. Brown, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Boozman, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Casey, 
Mr. Coons, Mr. Daines, Mr. Donnelly, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Durbin, Mr. 
Enzi, Mr. Franken, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Hatch, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Isakson, Mr. 
King, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Manchin, Mr. Markey, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Peters, 
Mr. Thune, Mr. Warner, Mr. Wyden, and Mr. Rounds) submitted the 
following resolution; which was considered and agreed to:

                               S. Res. 66

       Whereas a competitive global economy requires workers who 
     are trained in skilled professions;
       Whereas, according to the National Association of 
     Manufacturers, 80 percent of respondents indicated a moderate 
     to severe shortage of qualified skilled production employees, 
     including front-line workers such as machinists, operators, 
     craft workers, distributors, and technicians;
       Whereas career and technical education (referred to in this 
     preamble as ``CTE'') ensures that competitive and skilled 
     workers are ready, willing, and capable of holding jobs in 
     high-wage, high-skill, and in-demand career fields such as 
     science, technology, engineering, mathematics, nursing, 
     allied health, construction, information technology, energy 
     sustainability, and many other career fields that are vital 
     in keeping the United States competitive in the global 
     economy;
       Whereas CTE helps the United States meet the very real and 
     immediate challenges of economic development, student 
     achievement, and global competitiveness;
       Whereas approximately 11,500,000 students are enrolled in 
     CTE across the country with CTE programs in thousands of CTE 
     centers, comprehensive high schools, career academies, and 
     CTE high schools, and nearly 1,700 2-year colleges;
       Whereas, according to the Bureau of Labor and Statistics, 
     the 3 fastest growing occupations require an associate's 
     degree or a degree with fewer requirements, and each has an 
     annual median salary greater than $50,000;
       Whereas CTE matches employability skills with workforce 
     demand and provides relevant academic and technical 
     coursework

[[Page S1399]]

     leading to industry-recognized credentials for secondary, 
     postsecondary, and adult learners;
       Whereas CTE affords students the opportunity to gain the 
     knowledge, skills, and credentials needed to secure careers 
     in growing, high-demand fields;
       Whereas CTE students were significantly more likely than 
     non-CTE students to report having developed problem-solving, 
     project completion, research, math, college application, 
     work-related, communication, time management, and critical 
     thinking skills during high school;
       Whereas students at schools with highly integrated rigorous 
     academic and CTE programs have significantly higher 
     achievement in reading, mathematics, and science than 
     students at schools with less integrated programs; and
       Whereas February 23, 2017, marks the 100th anniversary of 
     the signing of the Act of February 23, 1917 (commonly known 
     as the ``Smith-Hughes Vocational Education Act of 1917'') (39 
     Stat. 929, chapter 114), which was the first major Federal 
     investment in secondary CTE and laid the foundation for the 
     bipartisan, bicameral support for CTE that continues as of 
     February 2017: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) designates February 2017 as ``Career and Technical 
     Education Month'' to celebrate career and technical education 
     across the United States;
       (2) supports the goals and ideals of Career and Technical 
     Education month;
       (3) honors the 100th anniversary of the Act of February 23, 
     1917 (commonly known as the ``Smith-Hughes Vocational 
     Education Act of 1917'') (39 Stat. 929, chapter 114);
       (4) recognizes the importance of career and technical 
     education in preparing a well-educated and skilled workforce 
     in the United States; and
       (5) encourages educators, counselors, and administrators to 
     promote career and technical education as an option for 
     students.

  Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, our Nation's continued economic 
competitiveness relies on the education and skills of the American 
workforce and its ability to meet and adapt to the 21st-century 
economy. Career and technical education, CTE, programs are a critical 
component to every student's education, creating diverse pathways into 
further education and developing careers. Today, approximately 11.5 
million students are enrolled in CTE, encompassing every State through 
nearly 1,700 two-year and thousands more secondary CTE centers, 
comprehensive high schools career academies and CTE high schools.
  According to the U.S. Department of Education's Office for Career, 
Technical and Adult Education, in 2012, the average high school 
graduation rate for students concentrating in CTE programs was 93 
percent, compared with the national average of 80 percent. These 
students gain real-world skills through applied learning, and integrate 
their academic curriculum with technical and employability skills. In 
addition, our Nation's continued economic competitiveness relies on the 
skill of the American workforce and its ability to meet and adapt to 
the 21st-century economy.
  CTE prepares students with education and training leading to 
industry-recognized credentials, including certifications, licenses, 
certificates and degrees, in a wide variety of fields. According to the 
U.S. Department of Labor, of the top three fastest-growing occupations, 
all will require real-world skills that can be mastered through CTE--
none require a bachelor's degree and all have median salaries above 
$50,000 per year. By increasing opportunities for students to obtain 
postsecondary skills training and meaningful credentials, CTE can 
spread economic opportunity to all students who are willing to work for 
it.
  Today with my Senate CTE Caucus cochairs Senator Portman, Senator 
Baldwin, and Senator Young and other colleagues in the Senate, I am 
introducing a bipartisan resolution to designate February as Career and 
Technical Education, CTE, Month. CTE Month provides a chance for 
students, counselors, educators and administrators to learn more about 
the educational opportunities available in their communities and 
recognize the importance of CTE in preparing a well-educated and 
skilled workforce in the United States. This year's resolution also 
marks the 100th anniversary of the Smith-Hughes National Vocational 
Education Act of 1917, the Nation's first major federal investment in 
secondary CTE.
  By formally recognizing CTE Month through this resolution, it is our 
hope that we can build greater awareness for the importance of 
strengthening access to high-quality CTE for millions of America's 
students and our nation's continued economic competitiveness.

                          ____________________



