

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 25 (Monday, February 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 25 (Monday, February 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1129-S1130]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. HATCH:
       S. 351. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to 
     provide for comprehensive student achievement information; to 
     the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. CORKER (for himself, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Alexander, 
             and Mr. Kaine):
       S. 352. A bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal to 
     Master Sergeant Rodrick ``Roddie'' Edmonds in recognition of 
     his heroic actions during World War II; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Ms. Cantwell):
       S. 353. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to extend the rural add-on payment in the Medicare home 
     health benefit, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. COTTON (for himself and Mr. Perdue):
       S. 354. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality Act 
     to eliminate the Diversity Visa Program, to limit the 
     President's discretion in setting the number of refugees 
     admitted annually to the United States, to reduce the number 
     of family-sponsored immigrants, to create a new nonimmigrant 
     classification for the parents of adult United States 
     citizens, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Ms. Collins):
       S. 355. A bill to amend the Federal Lands Recreation 
     Enhancement Act to provide for a lifetime National 
     Recreational Pass for any veteran with a service-connected 
     disability; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr. Peters, Mr. Brown, 
             and Mr. Franken):
       S. 356. A bill to amend title XXI of the Social Security 
     Act to improve access to, and the delivery of, children's 
     health services through school-based health centers, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. FEINSTEIN:
       S. 357. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior to 
     convey certain public lands in San Bernardino County, 
     California, to the San Bernardino Valley Water Conservation 
     District, and to accept in return certain exchanged non-
     public lands, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. Isakson, Mr. Rubio, and 
             Ms. Warren):
       S. 358. A bill to establish a designation for jurisdictions 
     permissive to terrorism financing, to build the capacity of 
     partner nations to investigate, prosecute, and hold 
     accountable terrorist financiers, to impose restrictions on 
     foreign financial institutions that provide financial 
     services for terrorist organizations, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. NELSON (for himself and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 359. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide a reduced excise tax rate for portable, 
     electronically-aerated bait containers; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr. Tester, Mr. Durbin, 
             Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Menendez, Mrs. 
             Gillibrand, Mr. Merkley, Ms. Cortez Masto, and Mr. 
             Van Hollen):
       S. 360. A bill to amend the Help America Vote Act of 2002 
     to require States to provide for same day registration; to 
     the Committee on Rules and Administration.
           By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mr. Grassley, and Mr. Lee):
       S. 361. A bill to amend section 349 of the Immigration and 
     Nationality Act to deem

[[Page S1130]]

     specific activities in support of terrorism as renunciation 
     of United States nationality, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mrs. Gillibrand, and Mr. 
             Van Hollen):
       S. 362. A bill to provide that 6 of the 12 weeks of 
     parental leave made available to a Federal employee shall be 
     paid leave, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr. Hoeven, Ms. Baldwin, 
             Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Franken, Mr. 
             Leahy, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Sanders, and Mr. Peters):
       S. 363. A bill to revise the authorized route of the North 
     Country National Scenic Trail in northeastern Minnesota and 
     to extend the trail into Vermont to connect with the 
     Appalachian National Scenic Trail, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and Mr. Boozman):
       S. 364. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     exempt certain recipients of Department of Agriculture 
     conservation assistance from certain reporting requirements, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
     and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. ROUNDS:
       S. 365. A bill to amend the Consumer Financial Protection 
     Act of 2010 to remove the funding cap relating to the 
     transfer of funds from the Board of Governors of the Federal 
     Reserve System to the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
     Protection, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. ROUNDS:
       S. 366. A bill to require the Federal financial 
     institutions regulatory agencies to take risk profiles and 
     business models of institutions into account when taking 
     regulatory actions, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.

                          ____________________



