

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 53 (Monday, March 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 53 (Monday, March 27, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2450-H2452]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         PACIFIC NORTHWEST EARTHQUAKE PREPAREDNESS ACT OF 2017

  Mr. BARLETTA. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 654) to direct the Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency to carry out a plan for the purchase and installation 
of an earthquake early warning system for the Cascadia Subduction Zone, 
and for other purposes, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                H.R. 654

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; DEFINITION.

       (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Pacific 
     Northwest Earthquake Preparedness Act of 2017''.
       (b) Cascadia Subduction Zone Defined.--In this Act, the 
     term ``Cascadia Subduction Zone'' means the landward-dipping 
     fault that is approximately 684 miles long, separates the 
     Juan de Fuca and North America plates, and stretches along a 
     portion of the western coast of the United States beginning 
     off Cape Mendocino, California, along the State of Oregon, 
     the State of Washington, to Northern Vancouver Island, 
     British Columbia.

     SEC. 2. EARTHQUAKE EARLY WARNING SYSTEM FOR CASCADIA 
                   SUBDUCTION ZONE.

       (a) Plan for Purchase and Installation.--
       (1) Development and funding.--The Administrator of the 
     Federal Emergency Management Agency shall--
       (A) develop a plan for the purchase and installation of an 
     earthquake early warning system for the Cascadia Subduction 
     Zone; and
       (B) identify the funds necessary for implementation of the 
     plan.
       (2) Submission to congress.--Not later than 90 days after 
     the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall 
     submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a copy of 
     the plan.
       (b) Report to Congress.--Not later than 1 year after the 
     date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit 
     to the appropriate committees of Congress a report that 
     summarizes the actions taken to implement the plan.
       (c) Definitions.--In this section, the following 
     definitions apply:
       (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
     ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
     Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
       (2) Earthquake early warning system.--The term ``earthquake 
     early warning system'' includes--
       (A) improvements to regional and geodetic networks that 
     support building a capability for an earthquake early warning 
     system; and
       (B) seismometers, Global Positioning System receivers, and 
     associated infrastructure.

     SEC. 3. EARTHQUAKE AND TSUNAMI TASK FORCE.

       (a) In General.--The President shall establish an 
     Earthquake and Tsunami Task Force for the purpose of 
     developing a comprehensive strategy and recommendations on 
     how the Nation should prepare and plan for, mitigate against, 
     respond to, recover from, and more successfully adapt to a 
     covered event in the Cascadia Subduction Zone.
       (b) Task Force.--
       (1) Membership.--The membership of the Task Force shall 
     include a cross section of subject matter experts 
     representing the following:
       (A) Relevant Federal agencies.
       (B) The States of Oregon, Washington, and California.
       (C) Indian tribes, local governments, and private sector 
     representatives that may be impacted by a covered event in 
     the Cascadia Subduction Zone.
       (D) Universities, academia, and research institutions with 
     expertise in topics relevant to the work of the Task Force.
       (2) Chairperson.--The Administrator (or the Administrator's 
     designee) shall serve as the chairperson of the Task Force.
       (3) Detailed employees.--Members of the Task Force may 
     detail employees to assist the Administrator (or the 
     Administrator's designee) in fulfilling the responsibilities 
     of the Task Force.
       (c) Comprehensive Strategy.--
       (1) Strategy.--The comprehensive strategy to be developed 
     under subsection (a) shall include the following:
       (A) A description of how Federal agencies will coordinate 
     to develop the ability to prepare and plan for, mitigate 
     against, respond to, recover from, and more successfully 
     adapt to the impacts of a covered event in the Cascadia 
     Subduction Zone.
       (B) A strategy to ensure collaboration between the 
     Department of Transportation, the Department of Energy, the 
     Coast Guard, the Corps of Engineers, and other Federal 
     agencies, as appropriate, for purposes of--
       (i) completing a needs assessment of Federal facilities in 
     need of hardening for a covered event; and
       (ii) developing a strategic plan to mitigate and retrofit 
     Federal, State, tribal, and local critical assets for 
     freight, energy, and transit purposes to withstand a covered 
     event and to help save lives during and immediately after a 
     covered event.
       (C) A strategy--
       (i) to assist State, tribal, and local governments in 
     developing and implementing a coordinated and comprehensive 
     plan to prioritize Federal, State, tribal, local, and private 
     investments and activities to develop the ability to prepare 
     and plan for, mitigate against, respond to, recover from, and 
     more successfully adapt to the impacts of a covered event in 
     the Cascadia Subduction Zone; and
       (ii) to link any existing statewide mitigation plan with 
     such a coordinated and comprehensive plan.
       (D) With respect to the strategy described in subparagraph 
     (C), an examination of the feasibility of the public sector, 
     the private sector, and individuals to acquire earthquake 
     insurance.
       (E) An identification of funding opportunities to implement 
     the comprehensive strategy and any recommendations made by 
     the Task Force, including--
       (i) existing funding opportunities across Federal agencies 
     and other sources; and
       (ii) potential new funding opportunities.
       (F) An identification of barriers to obtaining funding for 
     the implementation of the comprehensive strategy and 
     recommendations on how to remove the barriers.
       (G) A strategy for appropriate Federal agencies to 
     collaborate with and assist State, tribal, and local 
     governments in developing recommendations for cost-effective 
     mitigation alternatives for aging State, tribal, and locally 
     owned critical infrastructure.
       (H) A strategy for assisting State, tribal, and local 
     governments in developing a recovery plan prior to a covered 
     event in the Cascadia Subduction Zone that addresses how 
     State, tribal, and local governments may want to rebuild 
     after the event.
       (I) An identification of the steps taken to date to develop 
     an onshore and offshore earthquake early warning system and a 
     description of the purpose and scope of such a system.
       (J) An evaluation of the types of offshore earthquake early 
     warning systems and recommendations and a cost estimate for 
     an earthquake early warning system appropriate for the 
     Cascadia Subduction Zone.
       (K) Recommendations on how an earthquake early warning 
     system should operate, including whether and how the system 
     should interface with the private sector.
       (L) A description of appropriate roles and responsibilities 
     for Federal, State, local, and tribal governments, including 
     who should operate and maintain an earthquake early warning 
     system, the cost of the system, and possible funding sources 
     for the system.
       (M) A plan on how to integrate an earthquake early warning 
     system into existing and new public alert warning systems and 
     technologies, including mobile systems.
       (2) Use of existing plans.--In developing the comprehensive 
     strategy, the Task Force may use existing plans, studies, and 
     other resources.
       (d) Recommendations.--The recommendations to be developed 
     by the Task Force under subsection (a) shall include 
     recommendations on--
       (1) potential administrative or legislative changes 
     required to implement the comprehensive strategy;
       (2) the funding required to implement the comprehensive 
     strategy and the recommendations; and

[[Page H2451]]

       (3) the order of priority for implementation of the 
     comprehensive strategy.
       (e) National Academies.--
       (1) Collaboration.--The Task Force shall work 
     simultaneously and collaboratively with the National 
     Academies.
       (2) Agreement.--The Task Force shall enter into an 
     agreement with the National Academies under which the 
     National Academies shall develop recommendations for a 
     Federal research strategy to advance scientific understanding 
     of a Cascadia Subduction Zone earthquake and resulting 
     tsunami preparedness, including the following:
       (A) Geologic conditions, ground motions, and tsunami 
     hazards.
       (B) Implications of an effective automated early warning 
     system.
       (C) Effects of mega-earthquake and tsunami events on the 
     built and natural environment.
       (D) Social and behavioral factors for effective disaster 
     preparedness and response.
       (E) Cost-effective mitigation alternatives for legacy and 
     aging infrastructure.
       (F) Strategic planning for freight, energy, and transit 
     network robustness.
       (G) Tools that help communities invest their resources for 
     the greatest benefit.
       (H) Any other topics identified as necessary by the Task 
     Force or the National Academies.
       (f) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House 
     of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report of the Task Force 
     that includes the following:
       (1) The comprehensive strategy to be developed under 
     subsection (a).
       (2) The recommendations to be developed under subsections 
     (a), (d), and (e).
       (g) Definitions.--In this section, the following 
     definitions apply:
       (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
     Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
       (2) Covered event.--The term ``covered event'' means an 
     earthquake, tsunami, or combined earthquake and tsunami 
     event.
       (3) Task force.--The term ``Task Force'' means the Federal 
     interagency task force to be established under subsection 
     (a).

     SEC. 4. NATIONAL PREPARATION AND RESPONSE EFFORTS RELATING TO 
                   EARTHQUAKES AND TSUNAMIS.

       The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management 
     Agency shall be responsible for the Nation's efforts to 
     reduce the loss of life and property, and to protect the 
     Nation, from an earthquake, tsunami, or combined earthquake 
     and tsunami event by developing the ability to prepare and 
     plan for, mitigate against, respond to, recover from, and 
     more successfully adapt to such an event.

     SEC. 5. ADDITIONAL HAZARD MITIGATION ACTIVITIES.

       Section 404 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
     Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170c) is amended by 
     adding at the end the following:
       ``(f) Use of Assistance.--Recipients of hazard mitigation 
     assistance provided under this section and section 203 may 
     use the assistance to conduct activities to help reduce the 
     risk of future damage, hardship, loss, or suffering in any 
     area affected by earthquake hazards, including--
       ``(1) improvements to regional seismic networks in support 
     of building a capability for earthquake early warning;
       ``(2) improvements to geodetic networks in support of 
     building a capability for earthquake early warning; and
       ``(3) improvements to seismometers, Global Positioning 
     System receivers, and associated infrastructure in support of 
     building a capability for earthquake early warning.''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Barletta) and the gentleman from Oregon (Mr. DeFazio) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Pennsylvania.


                             General Leave

  Mr. BARLETTA. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks 
and include extraneous material on H.R. 654, as amended.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. BARLETTA. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  We know earthquakes pose one of the greatest natural hazards here in 
the United States. They strike without warning and result in 
potentially catastrophic casualties and damage to buildings and 
infrastructure.
  The Pacific Northwest is at risk of severe earthquakes, tsunamis, and 
volcanic eruptions. According to the experts, a massive earthquake is 
coming to the area. We just don't know when. Six years ago this month, 
a 9.0 earthquake in Japan created a tsunami that killed over 15,000 
people and caused a nuclear disaster.
  Earthquakes cannot be prevented, but their impacts on life, property, 
and the economy can be managed. FEMA is responsible for coordinating 
the Federal response to a catastrophic earthquake, and has been 
diligently working to help States plan and prepare for an earthquake. 
Good planning and preparedness can save lives and property.
  H.R. 654, the Pacific Northwest Earthquake Preparedness Act of 2017, 
directs FEMA to plan the development of an earthquake early warning 
system for the Cascadia Subduction Zone. The bill also directs the 
President to establish an earthquake and tsunami task force to develop 
a comprehensive strategy and recommendations on how to prepare and plan 
for seismic events.
  I want to commend the ranking member for his leadership on this 
critical national issue. He has been an advocate for his State and the 
Pacific Northwest, supporting preparedness and mitigation efforts and 
the development of a public West Coast earthquake early warning system.
  I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve the balance 
of my time.

         House of Representatives, Committee on Science, Space, 
           and Technology,
                                   Washington, DC, March 27, 2017.
     Hon. Bill Shuster,
     Chairman, Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, 
         House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: I am writing concerning H.R. 654, the 
     ``Pacific Northwest Earthquake Preparedness Act of 2017,'' 
     which was reported by your Committee on March 9, 2017.
       H.R. 654 contains provisions within the Committee on 
     Science, Space, and Technology's Rule X jurisdiction. In 
     order to expedite this bill for floor consideration, the 
     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology will forego 
     action on the bill. This is being done on the basis of our 
     mutual understanding that doing so will in no way diminish or 
     alter the jurisdiction of the Committee on Science, Space, 
     and Technology with respect to the appointment of conferees, 
     or to any future jurisdictional claim over the subject 
     matters contained in the bill or similar legislation.
       I would request that, in any final version of the 
     legislation, the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology 
     be included as a recipient of the reports called for in 
     Sections 2 and 3 of the bill.
       I would appreciate your response to this letter confirming 
     this understanding, and would request that you include a copy 
     of this letter and your response in the Congressional Record 
     during the floor consideration of this bill. Thank you in 
     advance for your cooperation.
           Sincerely,
                                                      Lamar Smith,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

         House of Representatives, Committee on Transportation and 
           Infrastructure,
                                   Washington, DC, March 27, 2017.
     Hon. Lamar Smith,
     Chairman, Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, 
         Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Smith: Thank you for your letter regarding 
     H.R. 654, the Pacific Northwest Earthquake Preparedness Act 
     of 2017. I appreciate your willingness to expedite 
     consideration of this legislation before the House of 
     Representatives, and accordingly, understand that the 
     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology will not seek to 
     litigate its claim of jurisdictional interest in this bill.
       The Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure concurs 
     with the mutual understanding that by foregoing the 
     litigation of its claim of jurisdictional interest in the 
     bill at this time, the Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology does not waive any claim to jurisdiction over the 
     subject matter contained in this bill or similar legislation 
     in the future. In addition, should a conference on this bill 
     become necessary, I would work with the Committee on Science, 
     Space, and Technology to litigate its jurisdictional claim 
     and, if such a claim is established by the Parliamentarians, 
     support your request to be represented on the conference 
     committee.
       I will insert copies of this exchange in the Congressional 
     Record during consideration on the House floor. I look 
     forward to working with the Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology as the bill moves through the legislative process.
           Sincerely,
                                                     Bill Shuster,
                                                         Chairman.

  Mr. DeFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I thank the chairman for his kind words for the work I have been 
doing for a number of years on this issue.
  I traveled with the committee last year to Japan to see what lessons 
they learned from the horrible earthquake 6 years ago, in which more 
than 15,000 people perished. They did have in place a land-based and 
near-ocean early warning system, which gave them enough time to shut 
down the high-speed trains, get people out of elevators in buildings, 
shut down production lines, mitigating economic losses

[[Page H2452]]

and property damage. But, unfortunately, the system was not adequate to 
predict the height of the tsunami, and 15,000 people died.
  They are now deploying a realtime deep ocean system. It is time for 
the United States to emulate that. The Cascadia Subduction Zone, off 
the coast of northern California and Oregon, has had at least a dozen 
massive earthquakes over the last 5,000 years. It is currently well 
overdue for an earthquake. If we had in place a deep ocean system near 
the southern end of that fault where they expect the major quake will 
start, it would give enough warning time for people on the coast of 
Oregon, and at least those a little further up the coast, to seek 
higher ground and not be inundated. It would provide more time in the 
valleys, and up in Portland and up in Seattle for transit systems to be 
shut down and people to take shelter. So this could save many lives.
  This bill directs FEMA to develop a plan to identify the necessary 
funds and the potential costs to purchase the equipment for an 
earthquake early warning system. It is basically off-the-shelf 
technology.
  It requires the President to establish an earthquake and tsunami task 
force. The task force will consist of representatives from potentially 
impacted areas, as well as earthquake and tsunami experts to develop 
comprehensive strategy recommendations on how the Nation should prepare 
for, mitigate against, respond to, recover from, and adapt to an 
earthquake, tsunami, or combined event in the Cascadia Subduction Zone.
  I strongly recommend this bill to my colleagues. We should learn from 
the disaster in Japan and take action here to save lives and property 
in the event of this quake in the Cascadia Subduction Zone.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. BARLETTA. Mr. Speaker, again, I urge my colleagues to vote 
``yes'' on H.R. 654, as amended, and I yield back the balance of my 
time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Barletta) that the House suspend the 
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 654, as amended.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. BARLETTA. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



