

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 12 (Monday, January 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 12 (Monday, January 23, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H606]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             RESIGNATION FROM THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

  The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before the House the following 
resignation from the House of Representatives:

                                    Congress of the United States,


                                     House of Representatives,

                                 Washington, DC, January 23, 2017.
     Hon. Paul Ryan,
     Speaker, House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Speaker: This letter is to inform you that I have 
     sent a letter to Kansas Governor Sam Brownback informing him 
     that I am resigning my position as the United States 
     Representative for the 4th Congressional District of Kansas 
     effective upon my confirmation as Director of the Central 
     Intelligence Agency.
       In November, I was nominated by then President-elect Donald 
     Trump to serve as Director of the Central Intelligence Agency 
     and have now been confirmed to have the privilege to serve in 
     that role. I am truly honored that President Trump has given 
     me the opportunity to lead an amazing organization filled 
     with men and women who put their lives on the line for the 
     safety and security of every American.
       I want to thank you for all you have done to make the House 
     of Representatives live up to its constitutional duty to 
     represent all Americans. Thank you too for your personal 
     assistance in working with me on the issues that impact all 
     Americans, but, especially, those who I have had the 
     privilege to represent from South Central Kansas. There is 
     much work to do legislatively; I will miss working to be part 
     of this historic opportunity now laid before us.
       I look forward to continuing to work with all of you as we 
     strive to keep America safe. My commitment to keeping you and 
     the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence fully 
     informed on important intelligence matters is sincere and 
     continuing.
           Sincerely,
                                                      Mike Pompeo,
     Member of Congress.
                                  ____

                                    Congress of the United States,


                                     House of Representatives,

                                 Washington, DC, January 23, 2017.
     Hon. Sam Brownback,
     Governor, State of Kansas,
     Topeka, Kansas.
       Dear Governor Brownback: I have now been confirmed by the 
     United States Senate to serve as the Director of the Central 
     Intelligence Agency. I am hereby resigning my position as the 
     United States Representative for the 4th Congressional 
     District of Kansas effective upon my confirmation as Director 
     of the Central Intelligence Agency.
       I have genuinely been privileged to represent the people of 
     South Central Kansas in Congress. Kansans are inspiring, 
     compassionate, and hard-working. To serve them in this 
     fashion has been a true honor I will always cherish.
       The opportunity to lead the world's finest intelligence 
     warriors was a call to service I could not ignore. I am truly 
     honored that President Trump has given me this opportunity. 
     The men and women of the CIA are the world's finest 
     intelligence professionals the world has ever known. Their 
     integrity, passion, and commitment to keeping our nation safe 
     is unquestionable. I am excited to lead them during this 
     dangerous time around the world.
           Sincerely,
                                                      Mike Pompeo,
     Member of Congress.

                          ____________________



