

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 1 (Tuesday, January 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 1 (Tuesday, January 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S18]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     REMEMBERING HUBERT PRICE, JR.

  Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize community 
activist and former Michigan State representative Hubert Price, Jr., of 
Pontiac, MI.
  Mr. Price was born on September 28, 1946, to parents Ruth and Hubert 
Price, Sr. He was a lifelong resident of the city of Pontiac, 
graduating from Pontiac Central High School in 1964 and going on to 
attend Michigan State University. He became actively involved in his 
community and civil rights at a young age.
  During a time when many of this country's citizens suffered through 
institutionalized practices of segregation, Pontiac was not immune. 
African-American residents were relegated to the southern side of the 
city, as they were restricted from obtaining housing on the northern 
side. Mr. Price was instrumental in the push for open housing 
ordinances, which would create opportunities for all residents.
  As the National Democratic County Officials' president, Mr. Price 
spoke at the 1992 Democratic National Convention, DNC, which was held 
at Madison Square Garden in New York City. He expounded upon the 
government's role in safeguarding the rights and protections that are 
due to all citizens. In addition to his DNC address, he also served as 
a moderator for a panel on public sector employment programs.
  As State representative from 1994 to 2000, Mr. Price diligently 
served the 43rd district of Michigan. He was the minority vice chair of 
the appropriations committee. He also was vice chair of the following 
subcommittees: higher education, family, independence agency, and 
supplementals.
  Improving the lives of youth in the community was of the utmost 
importance to Mr. Price. When he led the celebration of Pontiac's 150th 
birthday, Mr. Price commemorated the celebration by creating the 
sesquicentennial motto: ``To honor the past, recognize the present and 
build the future.'' Building that future included encouraging and 
providing youth with opportunities to grow within the community. As a 
county commissioner, Mr. Price secured summer jobs for Pontiac youth 
and minorities in Oakland County. After his service as a county 
commissioner, he continued to dedicate himself to youth development. In 
2012, he participated in Oakland Community College's Symposium on Good 
Governance, Leadership & Community Engagement, where he discussed his 
experiences in leadership.
  Mr. Price was known for his gregarious personality and could answer 
practically any question regarding the city of Pontiac's history. Even 
in his retirement, Mr. Price continued to be actively engaged in the 
community. He most recently served as a member of the master plan 
steering committee from 2013 to 2014 and was part of the group that 
helped prepare the 2014 Pontiac Master Plan Update. In 2015, he joined 
the Oakland County sheriff's efforts to ease tensions between Pontiac 
residents and the Oakland County Sheriff's Office. He, along with 25 
other community leaders, formed the sheriff's relations team, which 
helped open lines of communication in the community.
  Mr. Price is survived by his wife of 40 years, Carolyn, his children, 
grandchildren, and many relatives and friends.
  I cannot express enough the impact Mr. Hubert Price, Jr., had on the 
city of Pontiac and the State of Michigan. He was truly a treasure to 
our community and was influential locally and nationally. His passion, 
knowledge, and leadership will be missed. He served the city of Pontiac 
with his whole heart and relentlessly followed his vision for a better 
tomorrow. It is my hope that his spirit of advocacy continues to live 
on and his tremendous legacy inspires the next generation of leaders to 
make a difference in their communities.

                          ____________________



