

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 1 (Tuesday, January 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 1 (Tuesday, January 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H37-H46]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. GOODLATTE (for himself, Mr. Peterson, Mr. 
             Chabot, Mr. Marino, Mr. Ratcliffe, and Mr. 
             Luetkemeyer):
       H.R. 5. A bill to reform the process by which Federal 
     agencies analyze and formulate new regulations and guidance 
     documents, to clarify the nature of judicial review of agency 
     interpretations, to ensure complete analysis of potential 
     impacts on small entities of rules, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Oversight and Government Reform, and Small 
     Business, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ISSA (for himself, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. Sessions, 
             Mr. Collins of Georgia, Mr. Jordan, Mr. Marino, Mr. 
             Harris, Mr. Griffith, Mr. Ratcliffe, Mr. Jenkins of 
             West Virginia, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Gowdy, Mr. 
             Peterson, and Mrs. Hartzler):
       H.R. 21. A bill to amend chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, to provide for en bloc consideration in 
     resolutions of disapproval for ``midnight rules'', and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Rules, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself, Mr. Smith of Texas, 
             and Mrs. Black):
       H.R. 22. A bill to provide for operational control of the 
     international border of the United States, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Armed Services, Rules, Energy 
     and Commerce, and Agriculture, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. VALADAO (for himself, Mr. Nunes, Mr. 
             Rohrabacher, Mr. Cook, Mr. Issa, Mr. Royce of 
             California, Mrs. Mimi Walters of California, Mr. 
             Calvert, Mr. Knight, Mr. McCarthy, Mr. Hunter, Mr. 
             LaMalfa, and Mr. McClintock):
       H.R. 23. A bill to provide drought relief in the State of 
     California, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. MASSIE (for himself, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Guthrie, 
             Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Buck, Ms. 
             Foxx, Mr. Amash, Mr. Chaffetz, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, 
             Mr. Gosar, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. Rothfus, 
             Mr. Yoho, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Walberg, Mr. Stivers, 
             Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Barletta, Mr. Emmer, Mr. Westerman, 
             Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Jones, Mr. Duncan of South 
             Carolina, Mr. Pearce, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. 
             Culberson, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Griffith, Mr. Amodei, Ms. 
             Beutler, Mrs. Black, Mr. Smith of Missouri, Mr. 
             Burgess, Mr. Brat, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. 
             Palmer, Mr. McKinley, Mr. Rohrabacher, Mr. Meehan, 
             Mr. Holding, Mr. Labrador, and Mr. Bishop of Utah):
       H.R. 24. A bill to require a full audit of the Board of 
     Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal 
     reserve banks by the Comptroller General of the United 
     States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform.
           By Mr. WOODALL (for himself, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. 
             Bridenstine, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Carter of 
             Texas, Mr. Collins of Georgia, Mr. Conaway, Mr. 
             Culberson, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, 
             Ms. Foxx, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Graves of 
             Missouri, Mr. Graves of Georgia, Mr. Issa, Mr. King 
             of Iowa, Mr. Lucas, Mr. Massie, Mr. Mullin, Mr. 
             Olson, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Sanford, Mr. Walberg, Mr. Yoho, Mr. 
             Young of Alaska, Mr. Emmer, Mr. Ratcliffe, Mr. Jody 
             B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. Carter of 
             Georgia, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Bishop of Utah, and Mr. 
             Posey):
       H.R. 25. A bill to promote freedom, fairness, and economic 
     opportunity by repealing the income tax and other taxes, 
     abolishing the Internal Revenue Service, and enacting a 
     national sales tax to be administered primarily by the 
     States; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Goodlatte, 
             Mr. Sessions, and Mr. Marino):
       H.R. 26. A bill to amend chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, to provide that major rules of the executive 
     branch shall have no force or effect unless a joint 
     resolution of approval is enacted into law; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees on Rules, 
     and the Budget, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania (for himself and Ms. 
             Sinema):
       H.R. 27. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to retain a copy of 
     any reprimand or admonishment received by an employee of the 
     Department in the permanent record of the employee; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs. considered and passed. 
     considered and passed.
           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee:
       H.R. 28. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to adopt and 
     implement a standard identification protocol for use in the 
     tracking and procurement of biological implants by the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs. considered and passed.
           By Mr. GOODLATTE (for himself, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Bost, 
             Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Sanford, Mr. Duncan of South 
             Carolina, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Gosar, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. 
             Culberson, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. Rogers of 
             Alabama, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
             Hill, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Roe 
             of Tennessee, Mr. Griffith, Mr. Brat, Mr. Williams, 
             Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Holding, Mr. Labrador, Mr. 
             Olson, Mr. Luetkemeyer, Mr. Cole, Mr. Diaz-Balart, 
             Mr. Calvert, Mrs. Black, Mr. McClintock, and Mr. 
             Massie):
       H.R. 29. A bill to terminate the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Rules, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. HUDSON:
       H.R. 30. A bill to repeal the Federal estate and gift 
     taxes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. HUDSON:
       H.R. 31. A bill to provide for the periodic review of the 
     efficiency and public need for Federal agencies, to establish 
     a commission for the purpose of reviewing the efficiency and 
     public need of such agencies, and to provide for the 
     abolishment of agencies for which a public need does not 
     exist; to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. HUDSON:
       H.R. 32. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to exempt the spouses of active duty members of the Armed 
     Forces from the determination of whether an employer is 
     subject to the employer health insurance mandate; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CHABOT (for himself, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. Marino, 
             Mrs. Radewagen, Mr. Knight, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. Graves 
             of Missouri, Mr. Sessions, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. 
             Kelly of Mississippi, Mr. Tipton, Mr. Curbelo of 
             Florida, Mr. Hultgren, and Mr. Luetkemeyer):
       H.R. 33. A bill to amend chapter 6 of title 5, United 
     States Code (commonly known as the Regulatory Flexibility 
     Act), to ensure complete analysis of potential impacts on 
     small entities of rules, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Small Business, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. MASSIE (for himself and Mr. Gohmert):
       H.R. 34. A bill to repeal the Gun-Free School Zones Act of 
     1990 and amendments to that Act; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. BURGESS (for himself, Mr. Sanford, and Mr. 
             Carter of Texas):
       H.R. 35. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to modify rules relating to health savings accounts; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committees on the Judiciary, and Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.

[[Page H38]]

  

           By Mr. FRANKS of Arizona:
       H.R. 36. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     protect pain-capable unborn children, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FRANKS of Arizona:
       H.R. 37. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     prohibit a health care practitioner from failing to exercise 
     the proper degree of care in the case of a child who survives 
     an abortion or attempted abortion; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. HUDSON (for himself, Mr. Smith of Missouri, Mr. 
             Abraham, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Holding, Mr. 
             King of Iowa, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Palmer, Mrs. Wagner, 
             Mr. Kinzinger, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of Florida, Mr. 
             Walker, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Aderholt, Mr. Carter of 
             Georgia, Mr. Graves of Georgia, Mr. Rogers of 
             Alabama, Mr. Hensarling, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Cramer, Mr. 
             Cook, Mr. Westerman, Mr. Chabot, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. 
             Mullin, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Jody 
             B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Wenstrup, Mr. 
             Williams, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. 
             Amodei, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Jenkins of 
             West Virginia, Mr. Emmer, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. 
             Tipton, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. DesJarlais, Mrs. 
             Hartzler, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Zeldin, 
             Mr. Yoho, Mr. Sanford, Mr. Brat, Mr. Peterson, Mr. 
             Duffy, Mr. Yoder, Mr. Buchanan, Mr. Cole, Mr. 
             Newhouse, Mr. Turner, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. 
             Katko, Mr. Ratcliffe, Mr. Hill, Mr. Olson, Mr. 
             Harper, Mr. Buck, and Mr. Diaz-Balart):
       H.R. 38. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide a means by which nonresidents of a State whose 
     residents may carry concealed firearms may also do so in the 
     State; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. McCARTHY:
       H.R. 39. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     codify the Presidential Innovation Fellows Program, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. CONYERS (for himself, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Al Green 
             of Texas, Ms. Norton, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Ellison, Mrs. 
             Beatty, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Danny 
             K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Clay, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, and Ms. Lee):
       H.R. 40. A bill to address the fundamental injustice, 
     cruelty, brutality, and inhumanity of slavery in the United 
     States and the 13 American colonies between 1619 and 1865 and 
     to establish a commission to study and consider a national 
     apology and proposal for reparations for the institution of 
     slavery, its subsequent de jure and de facto racial and 
     economic discrimination against African-Americans, and the 
     impact of these forces on living African-Americans, to make 
     recommendations to the Congress on appropriate remedies, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MULLIN (for himself, Mr. Allen, Mr. Bishop of 
             Utah, Mr. Cole, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Gosar, 
             Mrs. Love, Mr. Lucas, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Russell, Mr. 
             Westerman, Mr. McClintock, Mr. Chaffetz, Mr. Yoho, 
             and Mr. Smith of Missouri):
       H.R. 41. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     require agencies to respond to comments from congressional 
     committees about proposed rulemaking, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MULLIN:
       H.R. 42. A bill to authorize the Directors of Veterans 
     Integrated Service Networks of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs to enter into contracts with appropriate civilian 
     accreditation entities or appropriate health care evaluation 
     entities to investigate medical centers of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. MULLIN:
       H.R. 43. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the use of Post-9/11 Educational Assistance to 
     pursue independent study programs at certain educational 
     institutions that are not institutions of higher learning; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. MULLIN (for himself, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Mooney of 
             West Virginia, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Bucshon, and 
             Mr. Smith of Missouri):
       H.R. 44. A bill to amend the Professional Boxing Safety Act 
     of 1996 to include fighters of combat sports in the safety 
     provisions of such Act; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GOODLATTE (for himself, Mr. Peterson, Mr. Smith 
             of Texas, Mr. Marino, Mr. Sessions, and Mr. Franks of 
             Arizona):
       H.R. 45. A bill to reform the process by which Federal 
     agencies analyze and formulate new regulations and guidance 
     documents; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. KATKO (for himself, Ms. Slaughter, and Ms. 
             Tenney):
       H.R. 46. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the Interior 
     to conduct a special resource study of Fort Ontario in the 
     State of New York; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 47. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
     Streets Act of 1968 to provide for the humane treatment of 
     youths who are in police custody, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 48. A bill to require that activities carried out by 
     the United States in South Sudan relating to governance, 
     reconstruction and development, and refugee relief and 
     assistance will support the basic human rights of women and 
     women's participation and leadership in these areas; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 49. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior to 
     establish and implement a competitive oil and gas leasing 
     program that will result in an environmentally sound program 
     for the exploration, development, and production of the oil 
     and gas resources of the Coastal Plain of Alaska, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Energy and Commerce, and 
     Science, Space, and Technology, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. FOXX (for herself and Mr. Cuellar):
       H.R. 50. A bill to provide for additional safeguards with 
     respect to imposing Federal mandates, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and in 
     addition to the Committees on the Budget, Rules, and the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Cramer, 
             Ms. Fudge, Mrs. Love, Ms. Adams, Mr. Cleaver, and Mr. 
             Scott of Virginia):
       H.R. 51. A bill to amend the National Agricultural 
     Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 to 
     direct the Secretary of Agriculture to establish a grant 
     program under which the Secretary will award $19,000,000 of 
     grant funding to the 19 1890-institutions ($1,000,000 to each 
     institution), such as Tuskegee University in Alabama, Prairie 
     View A&M University of Texas, Fort Valley State University of 
     Georgia, North Carolina A&T State University, and Florida A&M 
     University, and allocate the $1,000,000 to each such 
     institution for purposes of awarding scholarships to students 
     attending such institutions, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Cramer, 
             Ms. Fudge, Mrs. Love, Ms. Adams, and Mr. Cleaver):
       H.R. 52. A bill to rebuild the Nation's crumbling 
     infrastructure, transportation systems, technology and 
     computer networks, and energy distribution systems, by 
     strongly and urgently requesting the immediate recruitment, 
     employment, and on-the-job ``earn as you learn'' training of 
     African-American young men ages 18 to 39, who are the hardest 
     hit in terms of unemployment, with an unemployment rate of 41 
     percent nationally, and in some States and cities, especially 
     inner cities, higher than 50 percent, which is a national 
     crisis; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 53. A bill to direct the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to develop a database that shall serve as a central 
     location for information from investigations relating to 
     human trafficking for Federal, State, and local law 
     enforcement agencies; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 54. A bill to require the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to conduct a study on the feasibility of 
     establishing a Civilian Cyber Defense National Resource in 
     the Department of Homeland Security; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 55. A bill to establish a grant program for nebulizers 
     in elementary and secondary schools; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 56. A bill to establish a grant program for stipends 
     to assist in the cost of compensation paid by employers to 
     certain recent college graduates and to provide funding for 
     their further education in subjects relating to mathematics, 
     science, engineering, and technology; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 57. A bill to require the Director of the Federal 
     Bureau of Investigation to report to the Congress 
     semiannually on the number of firearms transfers resulting 
     from the failure to complete a background check within 3 
     business days, and the procedures followed after it is 
     discovered that a firearm transfer has been made to a 
     transferee who is ineligible to receive a firearm; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.

[[Page H39]]

  

           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 58. A bill to require the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to submit a study on the circumstances which may 
     impact the effectiveness and availability of first responders 
     before, during, or after a terrorist threat or event, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 59. A bill to enhance the security of chemical 
     facilities and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security, and in addition to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. DENHAM (for himself, Mr. Coffman, Mr. Amodei, 
             Mr. Kinzinger, Ms. Beutler, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mr. Newhouse, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Smith 
             of Washington, Mr. Valadao, Mr. Reichert, Mr. Diaz-
             Balart, Mr. Walz, Mr. Issa, Mr. Nunes, Mr. Upton, Mr. 
             Welch, Mr. Gowdy, Mr. Zinke, Mr. McNerney, Mr. 
             Lipinski, Mr. Costa, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Cuellar, Ms. 
             Gabbard, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. 
             Courtney, Mr. Crowley, and Mr. Curbelo of Florida):
       H.R. 60. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     authorize the enlistment in the Armed Forces of certain 
     aliens who are unlawfully present in the United States and 
     were younger than 15 years of age when they initially entered 
     the United States, but who are otherwise qualified for 
     enlistment, and to provide a mechanism by which such aliens, 
     by reason of their honorable service in the Armed Forces, may 
     be lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent 
     residence; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 61. A bill to provide for the expungement and sealing 
     of youth criminal records, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 62. A bill to provide for the hiring of 200 additional 
     Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives agents 
     and investigators to enforce gun laws; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 63. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide a tax credit to encourage private employers to 
     hire veterans, to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     clarify the reasonable efforts an employer may make under the 
     Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act 
     with respect to hiring veterans, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 64. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide an alternate release date for certain nonviolent 
     offenders, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 65. A bill to provide alternatives to incarceration 
     for youth, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois (for himself, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. LaHood, Mr. Kinzinger, Mr. Bost, Mr. 
             Schiff, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Shimkus, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. 
             Long, Mr. Lucas, and Mr. Foster):
       H.R. 66. A bill to establish the Route 66 Centennial 
     Commission, to direct the Secretary of Transportation to 
     prepare a plan on the preservation needs of Route 66, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 67. A bill to ensure that seniors, veterans, and 
     people with disabilities who receive Social Security and 
     certain other Federal benefits receive a $250 payment in the 
     event that no cost-of-living adjustment is payable in a 
     calendar year; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and Veterans' Affairs, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 68. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
     Streets Act of 1968 to reauthorize the Juvenile 
     Accountability Block Grant program, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BLUM (for himself, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Connolly, 
             and Mr. Cummings):
       H.R. 69. A bill to reauthorize the Office of Special 
     Counsel, to amend title 5, United States Code, to provide 
     modifications to authorities relating to the Office of 
     Special Counsel, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. CLAY (for himself, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Connolly, 
             and Mr. Cooper):
       H.R. 70. A bill to amend the Federal Advisory Committee Act 
     to increase the transparency of Federal advisory committees, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, and in addition to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself, Mr. Cooper, Ms. Sinema, 
             Mr. Abraham, Mr. Royce of California, Mr. Lamborn, 
             Mr. Huizenga, Mr. Yoder, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mrs. 
             Love, Mr. Burgess, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Gosar, Mr. 
             Gohmert, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, 
             Mr. Emmer, Mr. Trott, Mr. Bishop of Utah, Mr. Sam 
             Johnson of Texas, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Costa, 
             and Mr. Calvert):
       H.R. 71. A bill to provide taxpayers with an annual report 
     disclosing the cost and performance of Government programs 
     and areas of duplication among them, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. CARTER of Georgia:
       H.R. 72. A bill to ensure the Government Accountability 
     Office has adequate access to information; to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee (for himself and Mr. 
             Cummings):
       H.R. 73. A bill to amend title 44, United States Code, to 
     require information on contributors to Presidential library 
     fundraising organizations, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. MARINO (for himself, Mr. Bishop of Michigan, Mr. 
             Collins of Georgia, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. 
             Jenkins of West Virginia, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mrs. 
             Wagner, Mr. Duffy, Mr. Ratcliffe, Mr. Griffith, Mr. 
             Issa, Mr. Grothman, Mr. Rokita, Mr. Franks of 
             Arizona, Mrs. Mimi Walters of California, Mr. 
             Hultgren, Mr. Tipton, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             McClintock, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Labrador, Mr. Brat, Mr. 
             Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Emmer, and Mr. 
             DeSantis):
       H.R. 74. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     postpone the effective date of high-impact rules pending 
     judicial review; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. RATCLIFFE (for himself, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. 
             Marino, Mr. Barr, and Mr. Holding):
       H.R. 75. A bill to amend title 5, united States Code, to 
     provide for the publication, by the Office of Information and 
     Regulatory Affairs, of information relating to rulemakings, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RATCLIFFE (for himself, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. 
             Sessions, Mr. Collins of Georgia, Mr. Hensarling, Mr. 
             King of Iowa, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Gosar, Mr. 
             Marino, Mr. Culberson, Mrs. Black, Mr. Emmer, Mr. 
             Grothman, Mr. Lamborn, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Labrador, Mr. 
             Issa, Mr. Trott, Mrs. McMorris Rodgers, Mr. Griffith, 
             Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Renacci, Mr. Burgess, 
             Mr. Yoho, Mr. Walker, Mr. Rokita, Mr. Carter of 
             Georgia, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Palmer, Mr. Tipton, Mr. 
             Barr, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Bridenstine, 
             Mr. Hill, Mr. Hudson, Mr. Holding, Mr. Olson, Mr. 
             Rothfus, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Mullin, Mrs. 
             Love, Mr. Bishop of Utah, Mr. Meadows, Mr. DeSantis, 
             Mr. Messer, Mr. Luetkemeyer, Mr. Chaffetz, Mr. 
             Westerman, Mr. Woodall, and Mr. Brooks of Alabama):
       H.R. 76. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     clarify the nature of judicial review of agency 
     interpretations of statutory and regulatory provisions; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. LUETKEMEYER (for himself and Mr. Goodlatte):
       H.R. 77. A bill to require each agency, in providing notice 
     of a rule making, to include a link to a 100 word plain 
     language summary of the proposed rule; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. WAGNER:
       H.R. 78. A bill to improve the consideration by the 
     Securities and Exchange Commission of the costs and benefits 
     of its regulations and orders; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. CHABOT (for himself and Ms. Sinema):
       H.R. 79. A bill to clarify the definition of general 
     solicitation under Federal securities law; to the Committee 
     on Financial Services.
           By Mr. BABIN (for himself, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Burgess, 
             Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Abraham, and Mr. Olson):
       H.R. 80. A bill to suspend the admission into the United 
     States of refugees in order to examine the costs of providing 
     benefits to such individuals, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BABIN:
       H.R. 81. A bill to suspend, and subsequently terminate, the 
     admission of certain refugees,

[[Page H40]]

     to examine the impact on the national security of the United 
     States of admitting refugees, to examine the costs of 
     providing benefits to such individuals, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BABIN:
       H.R. 82. A bill to withhold Federal financial assistance 
     from each country that denies or unreasonably delays the 
     acceptance of nationals of such country who have been ordered 
     removed from the United States and to prohibit the issuance 
     of visas to nationals of such country; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BARLETTA:
       H.R. 83. A bill to prohibit the receipt of Federal 
     financial assistance by sanctuary cities, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BIGGS:
       H.R. 84. A bill to protect the right of law-abiding 
     citizens to transport knives interstate, notwithstanding a 
     patchwork of local and State prohibitions, and to repeal 
     federal provisions related to switchblade knives which burden 
     citizens; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself, Mr. Franks of Arizona, 
             Mr. Hensarling, Mrs. Mimi Walters of California, Mr. 
             Gohmert, and Mr. Burgess):
       H.R. 85. A bill to make 1 percent across-the-board 
     rescissions in non-defense, non-homeland-security, and non-
     veterans-affairs discretionary spending for each of the 
     fiscal years 2017 and 2018; to the Committee on 
     Appropriations.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN:
       H.R. 86. A bill to make 2 percent across-the-board 
     rescissions in non-defense, non-homeland-security, and non-
     veterans-affairs discretionary spending for each of the 
     fiscal years 2017 and 2018; to the Committee on 
     Appropriations.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN:
       H.R. 87. A bill to make 5 percent across-the-board 
     rescissions in non-defense, non-homeland-security, and non-
     veterans-affairs discretionary spending for each of the 
     fiscal years 2017 and 2018; to the Committee on 
     Appropriations.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN:
       H.R. 88. A bill to modify the boundary of the Shiloh 
     National Military Park located in Tennessee and Mississippi, 
     to establish Parker's Crossroads Battlefield as an affiliated 
     area of the National Park System, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN:
       H.R. 89. A bill to amend subtitle IV of title 40, United 
     States Code, regarding county additions to the Appalachian 
     region; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California (for herself, Mr. 
             Poliquin, Ms. Pingree, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. Takano, Mr. 
             Yoho, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Thompson of California, and 
             Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire):
       H.R. 90. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to carry out certain major medical facility leases of 
     the Department of Veterans Affairs; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California (for herself, Mr. Takano, 
             and Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire):
       H.R. 91. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     make permanent the pilot program on counseling in retreat 
     settings for women veterans newly separated from service in 
     the Armed Forces; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California (for herself and Mr. 
             Walz):
       H.R. 92. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     increase the maximum age for children eligible for medical 
     care under the CHAMPVA program; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California (for herself and Ms. 
             Kuster of New Hampshire):
       H.R. 93. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for increased access to Department of Veterans 
     Affairs medical care for women veterans; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California (for herself, Mr. Takano, 
             and Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire):
       H.R. 94. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     require congressional approval before the appropriation of 
     funds for Department of Veterans Affairs major medical 
     facility leases; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California (for herself, Mr. Walz, 
             Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Miss Rice of New York, 
             Mr. Takano, and Mr. Higgins of New York):
       H.R. 95. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide child 
     care assistance to veterans receiving certain medical 
     services provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
       H.R. 96. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     direct the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security 
     (Transportation Security Administration) to transfer 
     unclaimed money recovered at airport security checkpoints to 
     nonprofit organizations that provide places of rest and 
     recuperation at airports for members of the Armed Forces and 
     their families, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
       H.R. 97. A bill to amend the Consolidated and Further 
     Continuing Appropriations Act, 2016, to enable the payment of 
     certain officers and employees of the United States whose 
     employment is authorized under the Deferred Action for 
     Childhood Arrivals program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on House Administration.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
       H.R. 98. A bill to replace references to ``wives'' and 
     ''husbands'' in Federal law with references to ``spouses'', 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
       H.R. 99. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
     Streets Act of 1968 to provide for the eligibility of 
     Transportation Security Administration employees to receive 
     public safety officers' death benefits, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
       H.R. 100. A bill to amend title 23, United States Code, to 
     modify the percentages of funds to be allocated to certain 
     urbanized areas under the surface transportation block grant 
     program; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
       H.R. 101. A bill to direct the Comptroller General of the 
     United States to conduct reviews of certain budget requests 
     of the President for the medical care accounts of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
       H.R. 102. A bill to expand the research and education on 
     and delivery of complementary and alternative medicine to 
     veterans, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
       H.R. 103. A bill to amend the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs Health Care Programs Enhancement Act of 2001 and 
     title 38, United States Code, to require the provision of 
     chiropractic care and services to veterans at all Department 
     of Veterans Affairs medical centers and to expand access to 
     such care and services; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
       H.R. 104. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     make permanent certain programs that assist homeless veterans 
     and other veterans with special needs, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
       H.R. 105. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     ensure that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs repays the 
     misused benefits of veterans with fiduciaries, to establish 
     an appeals process for determinations by the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs of veterans' mental capacity, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
       H.R. 106. A bill to amend the VOW to Hire Heroes Act of 
     2011 to make permanent the Veterans Retraining Assistance 
     Program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
       H.R. 107. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Labor to prioritize the provision of 
     services to homeless veterans with dependent children in 
     carrying out homeless veterans reintegration programs, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
       H.R. 108. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     allow a credit for employers providing student loan payment 
     assistance for employees; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
       H.R. 109. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to make permanent the deduction for mortgage insurance 
     premiums; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
       H.R. 110. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to make permanent the exclusion from gross income of 
     discharge of qualified principal residence indebtedness; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BUCHANAN (for himself, Mr. Renacci, and Mr. 
             Diaz-Balart):
       H.R. 111. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to increase the limitations for deductible new business 
     expenditures and to consolidate provisions for start-up and 
     organizational expenditures; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. BUCHANAN (for himself, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mr. Posey, Mr. Vela, 
             Mr. Yoho, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. Bilirakis, Ms. 
             Ros-Lehtinen, and Mr. Diaz-Balart):
       H.R. 112. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to temporarily allow expensing of certain costs of replanting 
     citrus plants lost by reason of casualty; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.

[[Page H41]]

  

           By Mr. BUCHANAN (for himself and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 113. A bill to prevent human health threats posed by 
     the consumption of equines raised in the United States; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. BUCHANAN:
       H.R. 114. A bill to require the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to search all public records to determine if an 
     alien is inadmissible to the United States; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BUCHANAN:
       H.R. 115. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide additional aggravating factors for the imposition of 
     the death penalty based on the status of the victim; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BUCHANAN:
       H.R. 116. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to ensure that pass-through businesses do not pay tax at a 
     higher rate than corporations; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. BURGESS:
       H.R. 117. A bill to repeal Federal energy conservation 
     standards, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. BURGESS:
       H.R. 118. A bill to make clear that an agency outside of 
     the Department of Health and Human Services may not 
     designate, appoint, or employ special consultants, fellows, 
     or other employees under subsection (f) or (g) of section 207 
     of the Public Health Service Act; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. BURGESS:
       H.R. 119. A bill to repeal certain amendments to the Clean 
     Air Act relating to the expansion of the renewable fuel 
     program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. BURGESS:
       H.R. 120. A bill to reduce the amount of foreign assistance 
     to Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador based on the 
     number of unaccompanied alien children who are nationals or 
     citizens of such countries and who in the preceding fiscal 
     year are placed in Federal custody by reason of their 
     immigration status; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas:
       H.R. 121. A bill making supplemental appropriations for the 
     Army Corps of Engineers for flood control projects and storm 
     damage reduction projects in areas affected by flooding in 
     the city of Houston, Texas, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Appropriations, and in addition to the Committee 
     on the Budget, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas:
       H.R. 122. A bill to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act to 
     provide for the calculation of the minimum wage based on the 
     Federal poverty threshold for a family of 4, as determined by 
     the Bureau of the Census; to the Committee on Education and 
     the Workforce.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas:
       H.R. 123. A bill to extend the pilot program under section 
     258 of the National Housing Act that establishes an automated 
     process for providing alternative credit rating information 
     for mortgagors and prospective mortgagors under certain 
     mortgages; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas:
       H.R. 124. A bill to establish a grant program providing for 
     the acquisition, operation, and maintenance of body-worn 
     cameras for law enforcement officers, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas:
       H.R. 125. A bill to authorize a pilot program to improve 
     asset recovery levels, asset management, and homeownership 
     retention with respect to delinquent single-family mortgages 
     insured under the FHA mortgage insurance programs by 
     providing for in-person contact outreach activities with 
     mortgagors under such mortgages, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas:
       H.R. 126. A bill to direct the Election Assistance 
     Commission to carry out a pilot program under which the 
     Commission shall provide funds to local educational agencies 
     for initiatives to provide voter registration information to 
     secondary school students in the 12th grade; to the Committee 
     on House Administration.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas:
       H.R. 127. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, 
     with respect to urbanized area formula grants, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. BURGESS:
       H.R. 128. A bill to amend section 416 of title 39, United 
     States Code, to remove the authority of the United States 
     Postal Service to issue semipostals except as provided for by 
     an Act of Congress, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. BURGESS:
       H.R. 129. A bill to amend the FAA Modernization and Reform 
     Act of 2012 to establish prohibitions to prevent the use of 
     an unmanned aircraft system as a weapon while operating in 
     the national airspace system, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. COLE:
       H.R. 130. A bill to amend the Act of June 18, 1934, to 
     reaffirm the authority of the Secretary of the Interior to 
     take land into trust for Indian tribes, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. COLE:
       H.R. 131. A bill to reaffirm the trust status of land taken 
     into trust by the United States pursuant to the Act of June 
     18, 1934, for the benefit of an Indian tribe that was 
     federally recognized on the date that the land was taken into 
     trust, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. COLE:
       H.R. 132. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the Interior 
     to convey certain land and appurtenances of the Arbuckle 
     Project, Oklahoma, to the Arbuckle Master Conservancy 
     District, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. COLE:
       H.R. 133. A bill to reduce Federal spending and the deficit 
     by terminating taxpayer financing of presidential election 
     campaigns; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committee on House Administration, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CONYERS (for himself, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, 
             Mr. Cohen, and Ms. Jackson Lee):
       H.R. 134. A bill to amend title 11 of the United States 
     Code with respect to modification of certain mortgages on 
     principal residences, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CONYERS (for himself and Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia):
       H.R. 135. A bill to protect cyber privacy, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CONYERS (for himself, Mr. Nadler, and Mr. 
             Johnson of Georgia):
       H.R. 136. A bill to amend title 28 of the United States 
     Code to authorize the appointment of additional bankruptcy 
     judges; and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. CONYERS (for himself, Mr. Cohen, and Mr. Johnson 
             of Georgia):
       H.R. 137. A bill to amend title 11 of the United States 
     Code to stop abusive student loan collection practices in 
     bankruptcy cases; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CONYERS (for himself, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Mr. Deutch, and Ms. Jackson Lee):
       H.R. 138. A bill to amend title 11, United States Code, to 
     improve protections for employees and retirees in business 
     bankruptcies; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CONYERS (for himself, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, and Ms. Jackson Lee):
       H.R. 139. A bill to amend chapter 9 of title 11 of the 
     United States Code to improve protections for employees and 
     retirees in municipal bankruptcies; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa (for himself, Mr. Duncan of South 
             Carolina, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
             Smith of Texas, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Babin, Mr. 
             Farenthold, Mr. Barletta, Mr. Rohrabacher, and Mr. 
             Woodall):
       H.R. 140. A bill to amend section 301 of the Immigration 
     and Nationality Act to clarify those classes of individuals 
     born in the United States who are nationals and citizens of 
     the United States at birth; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. CONYERS:
       H.R. 141. A bill to amend title 11 of the United States 
     Code to dispense with the requirement of providing assurance 
     of payment for utility services under certain circumstances; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CONYERS:
       H.R. 142. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide for the protection of the general public, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CONYERS:
       H.R. 143. A bill to prohibit anticompetitive activities and 
     to provide that health insurance issuers and medical 
     malpractice insurance issuers are subject to the antitrust 
     laws of the United States, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CONYERS:
       H.R. 144. A bill to establish a corporate crime database, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK:
       H.R. 145. A bill to terminate pensions for Members of 
     Congress, to prohibit a single bill or joint resolution 
     presented by Congress to the President from containing 
     multiple subjects, to require the equal application of laws 
     to Members of Congress, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on House Administration, and in addition to the 
     Committees

[[Page H42]]

     on the Judiciary, and Oversight and Government Reform, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. FLEISCHMANN:
       H.R. 146. A bill to take certain Federal lands in Tennessee 
     into trust for the benefit of the Eastern Band of Cherokee 
     Indians, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. FRANKS of Arizona:
       H.R. 147. A bill to prohibit discrimination against the 
     unborn on the basis of sex or race, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas:
       H.R. 148. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide incentives for education on the risk of renal 
     medullary carcinoma in individuals who are receiving medical 
     assistance under such title and who have Sickle Cell Disease; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas:
       H.R. 149. A bill to authorize funds to prevent housing 
     discrimination through the use of nationwide testing, to 
     increase funds for the Fair Housing Initiatives Program, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas:
       H.R. 150. A bill to direct the Attorney General to create a 
     special reward program for individuals providing information 
     leading to the apprehension and conviction of persons 
     committing offenses under section 1030 of title 18, United 
     States Code, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas:
       H.R. 151. A bill to require any State which, after enacting 
     a Congressional redistricting plan after a decennial census 
     and apportionment of Representatives, enacts a subsequent 
     Congressional redistricting plan prior to the next decennial 
     census and apportionment of Representatives, to obtain a 
     declaratory judgment or preclearance in the manner provided 
     under section 5 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 in order for 
     the subsequent plan to take effect; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas:
       H.R. 152. A bill to provide for the issuance of a forever 
     stamp to the recognize the historical importance of Prince 
     Hall Freemasonry, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas:
       H.R. 153. A bill to provide for the issuance of a forever 
     stamp to honor the work of Dr. Michael Ellis DeBakey, who 
     helped develop the mobile army surgical hospital, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas:
       H.R. 154. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish the 
     Merchant Mariner Equity Compensation Fund to provide benefits 
     to certain individuals who served in the United States 
     merchant marine (including the Army Transport Service and the 
     Naval Transport Service) during World War II; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas:
       H.R. 155. A bill to direct the Secretary of Labor to revise 
     regulations concerning the recording and reporting of 
     occupational injuries and illnesses under the Occupational 
     Safety and Health Act of 1970; to the Committee on Education 
     and the Workforce.
           By Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas:
       H.R. 156. A bill to amend the National Labor Relations Act 
     to require the arbitration of initial contract negotiation 
     disputes, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. HASTINGS (for himself and Mr. Schweikert):
       H.R. 157. A bill to authorize assistance for the Government 
     of Tunisia, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. HASTINGS (for himself, Mr. Deutch, Ms. Frankel 
             of Florida, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, and Ms. Jackson 
             Lee):
       H.R. 158. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and 
     Safe Streets Act of 1968 to impose certain additional 
     requirements on applicants for COPS grants, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HASTINGS (for himself and Mr. Polis):
       H.R. 159. A bill to expand the workforce of veterinarians 
     specialized in the care and conservation of wild animals and 
     their ecosystems, and to develop educational programs focused 
     on wildlife and zoological veterinary medicine; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. HASTINGS:
       H.R. 160. A bill to end the use of corporal punishment in 
     schools, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. HASTINGS:
       H.R. 161. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     establish a grant program to provide supportive services in 
     permanent supportive housing for chronically homeless 
     individuals and families, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. HASTINGS:
       H.R. 162. A bill to establish a scholarship program in the 
     Department of State for Haitian students whose studies were 
     interrupted as a result of the January 12, 2010, earthquake, 
     or the October 2016 hurricane, Hurricane Matthew; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. HASTINGS:
       H.R. 163. A bill to repeal the provisions of the Protection 
     of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act prohibiting the bringing of 
     qualified civil liability actions in Federal or State court; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HASTINGS:
       H.R. 164. A bill to provide for an evidence-based strategy 
     for voluntary screening for HIV/AIDS and other common 
     sexually transmitted infections, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Education and the Workforce, Ways and Means, 
     and Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HASTINGS:
       H.R. 165. A bill to amend titles XVI, XVIII, XIX, and XXI 
     of the Social Security Act to remove limitations on Medicaid, 
     Medicare, SSI, and CHIP benefits for persons in custody 
     pending disposition of charges; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HASTINGS:
       H.R. 166. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to stabilize and modernize the provision of 
     partial hospitalization services under the Medicare Program, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HASTINGS:
       H.R. 167. A bill to require the Secretary of Education to 
     provide assistance to the immediate family of a teacher or 
     other school employee killed in an act of violence while 
     performing school duties; to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     and in addition to the Committees on Education and the 
     Workforce, and the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. HASTINGS:
       H.R. 168. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow individuals to designate overpayments of income tax 
     for disaster relief; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself, Ms. DelBene, Mr. DeFazio, 
             Mr. Panetta, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mr. Thompson of California, Ms. Speier, 
             Mr. Peters, Mr. Garamendi, and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 169. A bill to amend the Outer Continental Shelf Lands 
     Act to permanently prohibit the conduct of offshore drilling 
     on the outer Continental Shelf off the coast of California, 
     Oregon, and Washington; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. ISSA (for himself, Mr. Peters, Mr. Hunter, Mr. 
             Farenthold, Mr. Labrador, Mr. Smith of Texas, and Mr. 
             Polis):
       H.R. 170. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to modify the definition of ``exempt H-1B nonimmigrant''; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. JONES:
       H.R. 171. A bill to redesignate the Department of the Navy 
     as the Department of the Navy and Marine Corps; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. JONES:
       H.R. 172. A bill to restore the Free Speech and First 
     Amendment rights of churches and exempt organizations by 
     repealing the 1954 Johnson Amendment; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for himself and Mr. 
             Courtney):
       H.R. 173. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to repeal the excise tax on high cost employer-sponsored 
     health coverage; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa (for himself, Mr. Duncan of South 
             Carolina, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
             Smith of Texas, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Babin, Mr. 
             Barletta, Mr. McClintock, Mr. Rohrabacher, and Mr. 
             Palmer):
       H.R. 174. A bill to require U.S. Immigration and Customs 
     Enforcement to take into custody certain aliens who have been 
     charged in the United States with a crime that resulted in 
     the death or serious bodily injury of another person, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa (for himself, Mr. Massie, Mr. 
             Bilirakis, Mr. Gibbs,

[[Page H43]]

             Mr. Amash, Mr. Carter of Texas, Mr. Stewart, Mr. Jody 
             B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Byrne, Mr. 
             Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
             Gohmert, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. Cole, Mr. Sanford, Mr. 
             Farenthold, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Olson, Mr. Babin, Mr. 
             DesJarlais, Mr. Westerman, Mr. Aderholt, and Mr. 
             Duncan of Tennessee):
       H.R. 175. A bill to repeal the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education 
     Reconciliation Act of 2010; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on Ways and 
     Means, Education and the Workforce, Natural Resources, the 
     Judiciary, House Administration, Rules, and Appropriations, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa (for himself, Mr. Duncan of South 
             Carolina, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
             Smith of Texas, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, and Mr. 
             Barletta):
       H.R. 176. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to clarify that wages paid to unauthorized aliens may not be 
     deducted from gross income, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committees on the Judiciary, and Education and the Workforce, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa:
       H.R. 177. A bill to bar Supreme Court decisions in certain 
     Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act cases from 
     citation; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa:
       H.R. 178. A bill to require the country of origin of 
     certain special immigrant religious workers to extend 
     reciprocal immigration treatment to nationals of the United 
     States; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Bost, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Mooney of West 
             Virginia, Mr. Jenkins of West Virginia, and Ms. 
             Kaptur):
       H.R. 179. A bill to amend the Surface Mining Control and 
     Reclamation Act of 1977 to transfer certain funds to the 
     Multiemployer Health Benefit Plan and the 1974 United Mine 
     Workers of America Pension Plan, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. MULLIN (for himself and Mr. Guthrie):
       H.R. 180. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to eliminate the requirement for 3 months of retroactive 
     coverage under the Medicaid program; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. MULLIN (for himself and Mr. Guthrie):
       H.R. 181. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to count portions of income from annuities of a community 
     spouse as income available to institutionalized spouses for 
     purposes of eligibility for medical assistance, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. MULLIN:
       H.R. 182. A bill to prohibit the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services from using any type of fee collected to 
     advertise or market Exchanges established under the Patient 
     Protection and Affordable Care Act; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. MULLIN:
       H.R. 183. A bill to provide for the equitable settlement of 
     certain Indian land disputes regarding land in Illinois, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. PAULSEN (for himself, Mr. Kind, Mr. Poliquin, 
             Ms. Foxx, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Jones, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Harper, Mr. Messer, Mrs. Walorski, 
             Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Brooks of Alabama, Mrs. Mimi Walters of California, 
             Mr. Lance, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Carter of Texas, Mr. Reed, 
             Mr. Hill, Mr. Turner, Mr. Denham, Mrs. Brooks of 
             Indiana, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Rokita, Mr. Royce of 
             California, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Westerman, Mrs. 
             Blackburn, Mr. McCaul, Mr. MacArthur, Mr. LoBiondo, 
             Mr. Knight, Mr. Webster of Florida, Mrs. Noem, Mr. 
             Smith of Missouri, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Peterson, 
             Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, Mr. Valadao, 
             Mr. Sensenbrenner, Mr. Kinzinger, Mr. Holding, Mr. 
             Comer, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Burgess, Mr. Wittman, 
             Mr. LaHood, Mr. Long, Mr. Lucas, Mr. Olson, Mr. 
             Barton, Mr. Duffy, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. 
             Bishop of Utah, Mr. Conaway, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Gibbs, 
             Mr. Sam Johnson of Texas, Mr. Hudson, Mr. Yoho, Mr. 
             Upton, Mr. Marino, Mr. Barletta, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. 
             Rogers of Alabama, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. Jody B. Hice of 
             Georgia, Mr. Bishop of Michigan, Mr. Cole, Mr. 
             Davidson, Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, Mr. Buck, Mr. 
             Meadows, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. Wenstrup, Mr. Woodall, Mr. 
             Bucshon, Mr. Ratcliffe, Mr. Williams, Mr. Palmer, Mr. 
             Ross, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. McHenry, Mr. Walker, 
             Mr. Womack, Mr. Coffman, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. Thompson 
             of Pennsylvania, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Pittenger, 
             Mr. Trott, Mr. Walberg, Mr. Flores, Mr. Graves of 
             Georgia, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Rice of South Carolina, 
             Mr. Meehan, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Young of Alaska, Mr. 
             Young of Iowa, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. 
             Moulton, Ms. McSally, Mr. Aderholt, Mr. Grothman, Mr. 
             Babin, Mr. Blum, Mr. Brat, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Griffith, 
             Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. 
             Russell, Mr. Fleischmann, Mr. Mooney of West 
             Virginia, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Thornberry, Mr. Tipton, 
             Mr. McKinley, Mr. Barr, Mr. Collins of Georgia, Mr. 
             Fortenberry, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. Jenkins of West 
             Virginia, Mrs. Hartzler, Mr. Bost, Mr. Rogers of 
             Kentucky, Mr. Hultgren, Mr. Amodei, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. 
             Perry, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Shuster, Mr. Banks of 
             Indiana, Mr. Hensarling, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Shimkus, 
             Mr. Donovan, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Mr. Roskam, Mr. 
             Crawford, Mr. Culberson, Mr. Stewart, Mr. Chabot, Mr. 
             Cramer, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. Rohrabacher, Mr. 
             Sanford, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Katko, Mr. Tiberi, Mr. 
             Simpson, Mr. Walden, Mr. Dent, Ms. Beutler, Mr. 
             DeSantis, Mr. Massie, Mr. Gowdy, Mr. Frelinghuysen, 
             Mr. Hunter, Mr. Graves of Louisiana, Mr. Posey, Mr. 
             Luetkemeyer, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Hurd, Mr. Yoder, 
             Mrs. Black, Mr. Nunes, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida, Mrs. Love, Mr. Cook, Mrs. McMorris Rodgers, 
             Mr. Khanna, Mr. Lynch, Ms. Speier, Mr. Diaz-Balart, 
             Mr. Peters, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Correa, Mr. 
             Rouzer, Mr. Collins of New York, Mr. Issa, Mr. Emmer, 
             Mr. Buchanan, Mr. Marchant, Mr. Reichert, Mr. 
             Renacci, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mr. Mullin, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Graves of 
             Missouri, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. Austin 
             Scott of Georgia, Mr. Labrador, Mr. Curbelo of 
             Florida, Mr. Norcross, Mr. Allen, Mr. Latta, Mr. 
             Bera, Mr. Murphy of Pennsylvania, Mr. Bridenstine, 
             Mr. Kustoff of Tennessee, Mr. Byrne, Mr. 
             Hollingsworth, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Calvert, Mr. 
             Franks of Arizona, Mr. King of New York, Mr. 
             Sessions, Mr. Walz, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. McClintock, Mr. 
             Nolan, Mrs. Bustos, Ms. Granger, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. 
             Aguilar, Mr. Chaffetz, and Mr. Faso):
       H.R. 184. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to repeal the excise tax on medical devices; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. PLASKETT (for herself and Ms. Bordallo):
       H.R. 185. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide for economic recovery in the Virgin Islands and 
     Guam, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Ms. PLASKETT:
       H.R. 186. A bill to establish a program that enables 
     college-bound residents of the United States Virgin Islands 
     to have greater choices among institutions of higher 
     education, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. PLASKETT:
       H.R. 187. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to establish the Virgin Islands visa waiver program; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. PLASKETT:
       H.R. 188. A bill to amend the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of 
     the United States to extend to 2027 the production 
     certificate program that allows refunds of duties on certain 
     articles produced in United States insular possessions; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. PLASKETT:
       H.R. 189. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide for economic recovery in the possessions of the 
     United States; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. PLASKETT:
       H.R. 190. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide for economic recovery in the territories; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. PLASKETT:
       H.R. 191. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow the work opportunity credit to small businesses 
     which hire individuals who are members of the Ready Reserve 
     or National Guard, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. PLASKETT:
       H.R. 192. A bill to amend title 17, United States Code, and 
     the Communications Act of 1934 to include a territory or 
     possession of the United States, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.

[[Page H44]]

  

           By Mr. ROGERS of Alabama (for himself, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
             Biggs, Mr. Smith of Missouri, and Mr. Massie):
       H.R. 193. A bill to end membership of the United States in 
     the United Nations; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. RUSSELL (for himself and Mr. Connolly):
       H.R. 194. A bill to ensure the effective processing of mail 
     by Federal agencies, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. RUSSELL:
       H.R. 195. A bill to amend title 44, United States Code, to 
     restrict the distribution of free printed copies of the 
     Federal Register to Members of Congress and other officers 
     and employees of the United States, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and in 
     addition to the Committee on House Administration, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SIMPSON:
       H.R. 196. A bill to amend title 28, United States Code, to 
     provide for the appointment of additional Federal circuit 
     judges, to divide the Ninth Judicial Circuit of the United 
     States into two judicial circuits, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. SIMPSON:
       H.R. 197. A bill to authorize an additional district 
     judgeship for the district of Idaho; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. THORNBERRY (for himself, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Rogers 
             of Alabama, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. Wilson of South 
             Carolina, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Cramer, Mr. 
             Cook, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Bucshon, Mr. 
             Crawford, Mr. Culberson, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. 
             Gohmert, Mr. Arrington, Mr. Aderholt, Mr. Burgess, 
             Mr. Massie, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Lance, Mr. Duncan of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. 
             Bridenstine, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Olson, Mr. Franks of 
             Arizona, Mr. Bishop of Utah, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Long, 
             Mr. Hultgren, Mr. Graves of Missouri, Mr. 
             Luetkemeyer, Mr. Conaway, Mr. Turner, Mr. Diaz-
             Balart, Mr. Harper, Mr. McClintock, Mr. Williams, and 
             Mr. Smith of Texas):
       H.R. 198. A bill to repeal the Federal estate and gift 
     taxes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. VARGAS (for himself, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Serrano, 
             Mr. Grijalva, and Mr. Peters):
       H.R. 199. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the Interior 
     to conduct a special resource study of Chicano Park, located 
     in San Diego, California, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 200. A bill to amend the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
     Conservation and Management Act to provide flexibility for 
     fishery managers and stability for fishermen, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ (for herself, Mr. Serrano, and Mrs. 
             Napolitano):
       H.R. 201. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to provide loan deferment and loan cancellation for founders 
     and employees of small business start-ups, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, 
     and in addition to the Committees on Financial Services, Ways 
     and Means, and Small Business, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ:
       H.R. 202. A bill to amend the Fair Housing Act, to prohibit 
     discrimination based on use of section 8 vouchers, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services, and 
     in addition to the Committees on Ways and Means, and the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska (for himself and Mr. Larsen of 
             Washington):
       H.R. 203. A bill to amend the Richard B. Russell National 
     School Lunch Act to improve the efficiency of summer meals; 
     to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska (for himself and Mr. DeFazio):
       H.R. 204. A bill to amend the market name of genetically 
     altered salmon in the United States, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska (for himself and Mr. DeFazio):
       H.R. 205. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to require labeling of genetically engineered 
     fish; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska (for himself and Mr. DeFazio):
       H.R. 206. A bill to prevent the escapement of genetically 
     altered salmon in the United States, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 207. A bill to resolve title issues involving real 
     property and equipment acquired using funds provided under 
     the Alaska Kiln Drying Grant Program; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 208. A bill to waive the essential health benefits 
     requirements for certain States; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 209. A bill to improve the Department of Housing and 
     Urban Development's regulations on hazardous storage 
     containers; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 210. A bill to facilitate the development of energy on 
     Indian lands by reducing Federal regulations that impede 
     tribal development of Indian lands, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 211. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the Interior 
     to complete a land exchange with the Chugach Regional Alaska 
     Native Corporation, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 212. A bill to amend the Indian Self-Determination and 
     Education Assistance Act to provide a process for expediting 
     congressional review of an Indian tribe's funding agreement 
     at the Indian tribe's request, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 213. A bill to remove reversionary clauses on property 
     owned by the municipality of Anchorage, Alaska; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 214. A bill to establish the American Fisheries 
     Advisory Committee to assist in the awarding of fisheries 
     research and development grants, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 215. A bill to empower federally recognized Indian 
     tribes to accept restricted fee tribal lands, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 216. A bill to authorize modification or augmentation 
     of the Second Division Memorial, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. BLACK:
       H.R. 217. A bill to amend title X of the Public Health 
     Service Act to prohibit family planning grants from being 
     awarded to any entity that performs abortions, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 218. A bill to provide for the exchange of Federal 
     land and non-Federal land in the State of Alaska for the 
     construction of a road between King Cove and Cold Bay; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 219. A bill to correct the Swan Lake hydroelectric 
     project survey boundary and to provide for the conveyance of 
     the remaining tract of land within the corrected survey 
     boundary to the State of Alaska; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 220. A bill to authorize the expansion of an existing 
     hydroelectric project, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 221. A bill to reauthorize the Hydrographic Services 
     Improvement Act of 1998, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 222. A bill to amend the National Marine Sanctuaries 
     Act to prescribe an additional requirement for the 
     designation of marine sanctuaries off the coast of Alaska, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 223. A bill to prohibit the Secretary of the Interior 
     and the Secretary of Commerce from authorizing commercial 
     finfish aquaculture operations in the Exclusive Economic Zone 
     except in accordance with a law authorizing such action; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 224. A bill to amend the Marine Mammal Protection Act 
     of 1972 to allow importation of polar bear trophies taken in 
     sport hunts in Canada before the date the polar bear was 
     determined to be a threatened species under the Endangered 
     Species Act of 1973, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 225. A bill to amend the Marine Mammal Protection Act 
     of 1972 to allow the importation of polar bear trophies taken 
     in sport hunts in Canada; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 226. A bill to amend the African Elephant Conservation 
     Act of 1988 to conserve elephants while appropriately 
     regulating ivory in the United States, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 227. A bill to reauthorize the African Elephant 
     Conservation Act, the Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act 
     of 1994, the Asian Elephant Conservation Act of 1997, the 
     Great Ape Conservation Act of 2000, and the Marine Turtle 
     Conservation Act of 2004, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 228. A bill to amend the Indian Employment, Training 
     and Related Services Demonstration Act of 1992 to facilitate 
     the ability of Indian tribes to integrate the employment, 
     training, and related services

[[Page H45]]

     from diverse Federal sources, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 229. A bill to provide for the recognition of certain 
     Native communities and the settlement of certain claims under 
     the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 230. A bill to ensure equitable treatment of Shee 
     Atika, Incorporated, under the Alaska Native Claims 
     Settlement Act by facilitating the transfer of land on 
     Admiralty Island, Alaska, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 231. A bill to fulfill the land conveyance 
     requirements under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act 
     for the Alaska Native Village of Canyon Village, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 232. A bill to authorize States to select and acquire 
     certain National Forest System lands to be managed and 
     operated by the State for timber production and for other 
     purposes under the laws of the State, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 233. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     provide for the minimum size of crews of freight trains, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 234. A bill to provide limitations on maritime liens 
     on fishing permits, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 235. A bill to amend the Indian Health Care 
     Improvement Act to authorize advance appropriations for the 
     Indian Health Service by providing 2-fiscal-year budget 
     authority, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Budget, and in addition to the Committees on Natural 
     Resources, and Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 236. A bill to provide for the conveyance of certain 
     property to the Tanana Tribal Council located in Tanana, 
     Alaska, and to the Bristol Bay Area Health Corporation 
     located in Dillingham, Alaska, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 237. A bill to reauthorize the Integrated Coastal and 
     Ocean Observation System Act of 2009, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GOODLATTE (for himself, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. Smith 
             of Texas, Mr. Culberson, and Mr. Farenthold):
       H.J. Res. 1. A joint resolution proposing a balanced budget 
     amendment to the Constitution of the United States; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GOODLATTE (for himself, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. 
             DeFazio, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Culberson, and Mr. 
             Farenthold):
       H.J. Res. 2. A joint resolution proposing a balanced budget 
     amendment to the Constitution of the United States; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee:
       H.J. Res. 3. A joint resolution approving the location of a 
     memorial to commemorate and honor the members of the Armed 
     Forces who served on active duty in support of Operation 
     Desert Storm or Operation Desert Shield; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BRIDENSTINE (for himself and Mr. O'Rourke):
       H.J. Res. 4. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States granting Congress the 
     authority to enact laws limiting the number of terms that 
     Representatives and Senators may serve; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BUCHANAN:
       H.J. Res. 5. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States relative to balancing 
     the budget; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DeSANTIS (for himself, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Sanford, 
             and Mr. Blum):
       H.J. Res. 6. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States to limit the number of 
     terms that a Member of Congress may serve; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK:
       H.J. Res. 7. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States to limit the number of 
     years an individual may serve as a Member of Congress; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK:
       H.J. Res. 8. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States to provide for balanced 
     budgets for the Government; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK:
       H.J. Res. 9. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States to prohibit Members of 
     Congress from receiving compensation during a fiscal year 
     unless both Houses of Congress have agreed to a concurrent 
     resolution on the budget for that fiscal year prior to the 
     beginning of that fiscal year; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. HASTINGS:
       H.J. Res. 10. A joint resolution to authorize the use of 
     the United States Armed Forces to achieve the goal of 
     preventing Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. JENKINS of West Virginia (for himself, Mr. Barr, 
             Mr. Rogers of Kentucky, Mr. Griffith, and Mr. 
             Tipton):
       H.J. Res. 11. A joint resolution disapproving the rule 
     submitted by the Department of the Interior known as the 
     Stream Protection Rule; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. McCLINTOCK (for himself, Mr. Wilson of South 
             Carolina, and Mr. Duncan of South Carolina):
       H.J. Res. 12. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States prohibiting the United 
     States Government from increasing its debt except for a 
     specific purpose by law adopted by three-fourths of the 
     membership of each House of Congress; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. O'ROURKE:
       H.J. Res. 13. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States to limit the number of 
     terms a Representative or Senator may serve; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. SESSIONS:
       H. Con. Res. 1. Concurrent resolution regarding consent to 
     assemble outside the seat of government; considered and 
     agreed to.
           By Mr. COLE:
       H. Con. Res. 2. Concurrent resolution to authorize the use 
     of United States Armed Forces against the Islamic State of 
     Iraq and the Levant and its associated forces; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas:
       H. Con. Res. 3. Concurrent resolution recognizing former 
     United States Federal Judge Frank Minis Johnson, Jr. for his 
     role in the civil rights movement; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS:
       H. Res. 1. A resolution electing officers of the House of 
     Representatives; considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. McCARTHY:
       H. Res. 2. A resolution to inform the Senate that a quorum 
     of the House has assembled and of the election of the Speaker 
     and the Clerk; considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. McCARTHY:
       H. Res. 3. A resolution authorizing the Speaker to appoint 
     a committee to notify the President of the assembly of the 
     Congress; considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. CONYERS:
       H. Res. 4. A resolution authorizing the Clerk to inform the 
     President of the election of the Speaker and the Clerk; 
     considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. McCARTHY:
       H. Res. 5. A resolution adopting rules for the One Hundred 
     Fifteenth Congress; considered and agreed to.
           By Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS:
       H. Res. 6. A resolution electing Members to certain 
     standing committees of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. CROWLEY:
       H. Res. 7. A resolution electing Members to certain 
     standing committees of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. CROWLEY:
       H. Res. 8. A resolution providing for the designation of 
     certain minority employees; considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. SESSIONS:
       H. Res. 9. A resolution fixing the daily hour of meeting of 
     the First Session of the One Hundred Fifteenth Congress; 
     considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. CRAMER:
       H. Res. 10. A resolution recognizing linemen, the 
     profession of linemen, the contributions of these brave men 
     and women who protect public safety, and expressing support 
     for the designation of April 18, 2017, as National Lineman 
     Appreciation Day; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself, Mr. Engel, 
             Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. 
             Graves of Missouri, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Hudson, Miss Rice 
             of New York, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. Perry, Ms. Ros-
             Lehtinen, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Nunes, Mrs. Lowey, Mr. 
             Smith of New Jersey, Mr. Sherman, Mr. Zeldin, Ms. 
             Meng, Mr. Yoho, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mr. Chabot, 
             Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, 
             Mr. Sires, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Yoder, Mr. Banks of Indiana, Mr. 
             Moolenaar, Mr. Luetkemeyer, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Hill, 
             Mr. Hastings, Mr. Schneider, Mr. Marino, Mr. Vargas, 
             Mr. Nadler, Mr. Soto, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Gene Green of 
             Texas, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Carter of Texas, Mr. 
             Norcross, Mr.

[[Page H46]]

             Wilson of South Carolina, Mr. Marchant, Mr. Diaz-
             Balart, Mrs. Hartzler, Mr. Burgess, Mr. Stewart, Mr. 
             Gallagher, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Dunn, and Mr. Newhouse):
       H. Res. 11. A resolution objecting to United Nations 
     Security Council Resolution 2334 as an obstacle to Israeli-
     Palestinian peace, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H. Res. 12. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives regarding the enhancement of unity in 
     America; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H. Res. 13. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the Transportation Security 
     Administration should, in accordance with existing law, 
     enhance security against terrorist attack and other security 
     threats to our Nation's rail and mass transit systems and 
     other modes of surface transportation; and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. ROSS (for himself, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Gohmert, 
             Mrs. Black, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. 
             Cramer, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. Chaffetz, Mr. Pearce, Mr. 
             Gowdy, Mr. Bishop of Michigan, Mr. Gosar, Mr. 
             Stewart, Mr. McKinley, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. Messer, Mr. 
             Abraham, Mr. Jenkins of West Virginia, Mr. Byrne, 
             Mrs. Mimi Walters of California, Mr. Donovan, Mr. 
             Hensarling, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Trott, Mr. Graves of 
             Georgia, Mr. Buchanan, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Brat, Mr. 
             Smith of Texas, Mr. Williams, Mr. Davidson, Mr. 
             Tipton, Mr. Fleischmann, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Culberson, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Tiberi, Mr. Meehan, Mr. 
             Grothman, Mr. Posey, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, 
             Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Rokita, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. 
             Loudermilk, Mr. Arrington, Mr. Harris, Mr. Kelly of 
             Mississippi, Mr. Sam Johnson of Texas, Mr. Issa, and 
             Mrs. Hartzler):
       H. Res. 14. A resolution disapproving of President Obama 
     and his administration's refusal to veto the anti-Israel 
     resolution adopted by the United Nations Security Council on 
     December 23, 2016; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. GRAVES of Missouri (for himself and Mr. 
             Connolly):
       H. Res. 15. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the United States Postal Service 
     should take all appropriate measures to ensure the 
     continuation of its 6-day mail delivery service; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas:
       H. Res. 16. A resolution supporting local law enforcement 
     agencies in their continued work to serve our communities, 
     and supporting their use of body worn cameras to promote 
     transparency to protect both citizens and officers alike; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas:
       H. Res. 17. A resolution expressing concern over the 
     disappearance of Austin Tice, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Intelligence (Permanent Select), for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas:
       H. Res. 18. A resolution expressing concern over the 
     detainment of Sandy Phan-Gillis, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Intelligence (Permanent Select), for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HASTINGS (for himself, Ms. Norton, Ms. Moore, 
             and Mr. Lewis of Georgia):
       H. Res. 19. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals of 
     Jubilee Day; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. HASTINGS:
       H. Res. 20. A resolution recognizing the importance of 
     nonprofit organizations to the economy of the United States 
     and expressing support for designation of September as 
     ``Nonprofit Organization (NPO) Recognition Month''; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. JONES:
       H. Res. 21. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives regarding the firefight that occurred on 
     March 4, 2007, between members of the United States Marine 
     Corps and enemy forces in Bati Kot District, Nangarhar 
     Province, Afghanistan; to the Committee on Armed Services.

                          ____________________



