

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 45 (Wednesday, March 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 45 (Wednesday, March 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1839-S1841]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr. McCain, Mr. Reed, Mr. 
             Tillis, Mr. Blumenthal, and Mr. Kaine):
       S. 630. A bill to amend the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 
     2009 to make 2,500 visas available for the Afghan Special 
     Immigrant Visa program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MARKEY:
       S. 631. A bill to amend the FAA Modernization and Reform 
     Act of 2012 to provide guidance and limitations regarding the 
     integration of unmanned aircraft systems into United States 
     airspace, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. COONS (for himself, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Rubio, and 
             Mr. Nelson):
       S. 632. A bill to amend title 28 of the United States Code 
     to authorize the appointment of additional bankruptcy judges; 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mrs. McCaskill, and Mr. 
             Wyden):
       S. 633. A bill to amend the Congressional Accountability 
     Act of 1995 to apply whistleblower protections available to 
     certain executive branch employees to legislative branch 
     employees, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr. Lee):
       S. 634. A bill to require reductions in the direct cost of 
     Federal regulations that are proportional to the amount of 
     increases in the debt ceiling; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security and Governmental Affairs.

[[Page S1840]]

  

           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Ms. Collins, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Mr. Markey, and Mrs. Murray):
       S. 635. A bill to amend title 28, United States Code, to 
     prohibit the exclusion of individuals from service on a 
     Federal jury on account of sexual orientation or gender 
     identity; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. 
             Booker, Mr. Brown, Ms. Cantwell, Mr. Cardin, Mr. 
             Casey, Mr. Coons, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Franken, Mrs. 
             Gillibrand, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Heinrich, Ms. Hirono, Mr. 
             Kaine, Mr. King, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Leahy, Mr. 
             Markey, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Murphy, Mr. 
             Reed, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Schumer, Mr. Udall, Mr. Van 
             Hollen, Ms. Warren, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Wyden, and 
             Mr. Peters):
       S. 636. A bill to allow Americans to earn paid sick time so 
     that they can address their own health needs and the health 
     needs of their families; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. Brown, and Ms. 
             Heitkamp):
       S. 637. A bill to amend titles XI and XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide greater transparency of discounts 
     provided by drug manufacturers; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Ms. Stabenow, and Mr. 
             Brown):
       S. 638. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide appropriate rules for the application of the 
     deduction for income attributable to domestic production 
     activities with respect to certain contract manufacturing or 
     production arrangements; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Mr. Bennet, and Mrs. 
             Capito):
       S. 639. A bill to clarify that nonprofit organizations such 
     as Habitat for Humanity may accept donated mortgage 
     appraisals, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Markey, Mr. 
             Cardin, Mr. Casey, and Mr. Van Hollen):
       S. 640. A bill to prioritize funding for an expanded and 
     sustained national investment in biomedical research; to the 
     Committee on the Budget.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Ms. Baldwin):
       S. 641. A bill to prioritize funding for an expanded and 
     sustained national investment in basic science research; to 
     the Committee on the Budget.
           By Mr. PAUL (for himself, Mr. Lee, Mr. Crapo, Mr. King, 
             Mr. Udall, and Mr. Heinrich):
       S. 642. A bill to restore the integrity of the Fifth 
     Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. 
             Cornyn, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Graham, Mr. Leahy, Mr. 
             Franken, Mr. Blumenthal, and Mr. Markey):
       S. 643. A bill to provide for media coverage of Federal 
     court proceedings; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. COCHRAN (for himself and Mr. Wicker):
       S. 644. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the Interior 
     to conduct a special resource study of the Medgar Evers 
     House, located in Jackson, Mississippi, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mrs. Capito, Mr. King, 
             Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Franken, and Mr. 
             Sullivan):
       S. 645. A bill to require the Secretary of Commerce to 
     conduct an assessment and analysis of the effects of 
     broadband deployment and adoption on the economy of the 
     United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Ms. Hirono, Mr. 
             Franken, Mr. Durbin, and Mr. Whitehouse):
       S. 646. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the enforcement of employment and reemployment rights 
     of members of the uniformed services, to amend the 
     Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to improve the protection of 
     members of the uniformed services, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Markey, 
             Mr. Franken, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Merkley, and Mr. 
             Whitehouse):
       S. 647. A bill to amend title 9, United States Code, with 
     respect to arbitration; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and Mr. Wicker):
       S. 648. A bill to establish a grant program to promote the 
     development of career education programs in computer science 
     in secondary and postsecondary education; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. Grassley, Mr. Franken, 
             Mr. Blumenthal, and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 649. A bill to permit the televising of Supreme Court 
     proceedings; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. COONS (for himself and Mr. Roberts):
       S. 650. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to expand 
     tax credit education and training for small businesses that 
     engage in research and development, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
           By Mrs. McCASKILL (for herself and Mr. Tester):
       S. 651. A bill to require the posting online of certain 
     government contracts; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
     and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr. Kaine):
       S. 652. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     reauthorize a program for early detection, diagnosis, and 
     treatment regarding deaf and hard-of-hearing newborns, 
     infants, and young children; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. HATCH:
       S. 653. A bill to amend the Carl D. Perkins Career and 
     Technical Education Act of 2006 to make the maintenance of 
     effort provision less burdensome on States; to the Committee 
     on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Durbin, 
             and Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 654. A bill to revise section 48 of title 18, United 
     States Code, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. RISCH (for himself and Mr. King):
       S. 655. A bill to exempt certain 16- and 17-year-old 
     individuals employed in logging operations from child labor 
     laws; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mr. Lee, and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 656. A bill to help individuals receiving disability 
     insurance benefits under title II of the Social Security Act 
     obtain rehabilitation services and return to the workforce, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. WICKER (for himself and Mr. Brown):
       S. 657. A bill to provide for the publication by the 
     Secretary of Health and Human Services of physical activity 
     recommendations for Americans; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. HOEVEN (for himself and Mr. Coons):
       S. 658. A bill to treat all controlled substance analogues, 
     other than chemical substances subject to the Toxic 
     Substances Control Act, as controlled substances in schedule 
     I regardless of whether they are intended for human 
     consumption; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr. Cardin):
       S. 659. A bill to impose sanctions with respect to the 
     People's Republic of China in relation to activities in the 
     South China Sea and the East China Sea, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr. Bennet):
       S. 660. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 in 
     order to fulfill the Federal mandate to provide higher 
     educational opportunities for Native American Indians; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. UDALL:
       S. 661. A bill to assist entrepreneurs, support development 
     of the creative economy, and encourage international cultural 
     exchange, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Mr. Sanders, Mr. 
             Markey, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Kaine, Ms. 
             Baldwin, Mr. Wyden, and Ms. Hirono):
       S. 662. A bill to provide incentives for hate crime 
     reporting, grants for State-run hate crime hotlines, a 
     Federal private right of action for victims of hate crimes, 
     and additional penalties for individuals convicted under the 
     Matthew Shephard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention 
     Act; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. THUNE:
       S. 663. A bill to establish the position of Choice Program 
     Ombudsman within the Office of Inspector General of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs to manage complaints regarding 
     the provision of hospital care and medical services under 
     section 101 of the Veterans Access, Choice, and 
     Accountability Act of 2014; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. HATCH:
       S. 664. A bill to approve the settlement of the water 
     rights claims of the Navajo in Utah, to authorize 
     construction of projects in connection therewith, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Mr. Tillis, Mr. Kennedy, 
             and Mr. Cochran):
       S. 665. A bill to amend the Outer Continental Shelf Lands 
     Act to authorize additional lease sales to be added to an 
     approved 5-year leasing program; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. SCOTT (for himself, Mr. Graham, and Mr. 
             Isakson):
       S. 666. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to modify the credit for production from advanced nuclear 
     power facilities; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. FRANKEN (for himself, Mrs. Capito, Ms. 
             Klobuchar, and Mr. Cornyn):
       S. 667. A bill to amend titles 5, 10, 37, and 38, United 
     States Code, to ensure that an order to serve on active duty 
     under section 12304a or 12304b of title 10, United States

[[Page S1841]]

     Code, is treated the same as other orders to serve on active 
     duty for determining the eligibility of members of the 
     uniformed services and veterans for certain benefits and for 
     calculating the deadlines for certain benefits; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. CARPER (for himself, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Blumenthal, 
             Mr. Booker, Mr. Coons, Ms. Cortez Masto, Ms. 
             Duckworth, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Franken, Mrs. Gillibrand, 
             Ms. Hirono, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Markey, Mr. 
             Menendez, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Murphy, Mrs. Murray, Mr. 
             Reed, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Warren, Mr. 
             Wyden, and Ms. Harris):
       S. 668. A bill to nullify the effect of the recent 
     executive order regarding border security and immigration 
     enforcement; to the Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



