

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H380-H389]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        PRESIDENTOBAMA'S LEGACY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Fitzpatrick). Under the Speaker's 
announced policy of January 3, 2017, the Chairrecognizes the gentleman 
from Arizona (Mr. Franks) for 30 minutes.
  Mr. FRANKS of Arizona. Mr. Speaker, one of the most important 
elements of this Republic is the ability of the people tounderstand and 
to remember the public actions and record of those they elect. This is 
vital to government accountability, tohistorical accuracy, and to the 
future direction of the future generations of this country.
  So, Mr. Speaker, what follows is the record and legacy of President 
Barack Obama.
  Last night, Mr. Speaker, President Barack Obama gave his farewell 
address to the Nation. In his speech, President Obamapraised American 
exceptionalism for the very first time since his Presidency began. 
Unfortunately, Mr. Speaker, much of theremainder of the President's 
speech was far removed from reality.
  Mr. Obama implied that his Presidency had increased trust and respect 
for America. Yet, the truth is that under Mr. Obama'sPresidency, the 
trust and respect that both friend and foe alike previously had for 
America has been demonstrably diminishedacross the world. Mr. Obama, in 
fact, weakened our economy and led the most anemic military campaign in 
our history. So, Mr.Speaker, let us now recall the grand promise of 
candidate Barack Obama, bedecked with Greek columns and the rhetoric 
ofbipartisan unity as it was, and let's compare it to the actual legacy 
of President Barack Obama, the partisan heckler at homeand the lead 
from behind, apologize for America, academic abroad who was evermore 
eager to force Catholic nuns to buy birthcontrol than he was to fight 
the ruthless butchers of the Islamic State.

[[Page H381]]

  Mr. Speaker, President Barack Obama has taken credit for a growing 
economy, but, after his failed stimulus, his was theworst economic 
recovery in the history of America. And his Presidency will be the 
first in modern times whose 8 years in officewill fail to include even 
1 year of 3 percent economic growth.
  Under Barack Obama's Presidency, the number of long-term unemployed 
eclipsed 15 million for the very first time in history.
  Today, 95 million Americans, the highest number in history, are now 
not in the workforce in America. And according to thelatest numbers 
from the Census Bureau, household income fell by more than $2,100 in 
inflation-adjusted terms; and 45.3 millionAmericans, the highest number 
in history, now live in poverty. More than 43 million Americans were 
receiving food stamps underBarack Obama, the highest number in history.
  Barack Obama single-handedly added almost as much deficit to the 
national debt as all of the other Presidents in the 240-year history of 
the United States of America combined. And Standard & Poor's downgraded 
the U.S. Government from its AAA creditrating for the very first time 
in history.
  Mr. Obama's signature policy achieved what was called the Affordable 
Care Act. As we have learned year after year,essentially nothing Mr. 
Obama said about the Affordable Care Act was true. ObamaCare contained 
over $1 trillion in new taxes,which was the largest tax increase in 
history. Yet, millions remain uninsured. Healthcare costs have never 
been higher, and theentire debacle called ObamaCare is now 
catastrophically collapsing before our very eyes.
  Mr. Speaker, Mr. Obama engineered the sequester on the military which 
had devastating consequences on our men and women inuniform and our 
ability to fight and win wars when necessary. Mr. Obama's was the 
opposite of a commitment to peace throughstrength.
  When it came to justice at home, Barack Obama told us that adult male 
transvestites had the moral right and the legal rightto go into the 
bathroom with little schoolgirls whether their parents liked it or not. 
He fundamentally sought to abrogatereligious freedom in America. He 
weaponized the Internal Revenue Service, the Environmental Protection 
Agency, the AttorneyGeneral's Office, and the Justice Department 
against America's own citizens. It was and is the epitome of tyranny.
  Mr. Obama unconstitutionally ignored and selectively applied 
America's immigration laws and illegally suspended 
immigrationenforcement. He released 19,723 criminal illegal immigrants 
from prison into every State of the Union. These nearly 20,000criminal 
illegal aliens were collectively convicted of over 60,000 crimes, 
including over 12,000 drunk driving convictions, andover 8,000 violent 
crimes such as assault, rape, and murder.
  Mr. Obama's actions endangered Americans and denied justice to the 
victims of their crimes. Mr. Obama bears a share of theresponsibility 
for every crime that these criminals have committed or will commit 
against Americans since he released them fromprison into American 
society.
  But, Mr. Speaker, perhaps Mr. Obama's most egregious broken promise 
to all Americans is when he said: ``I, Barack Hussein Obama, do 
solemnly swear that I will execute the Office of President of the 
United States faithfully,and will to the best of my ability, preserve, 
protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States.'' Since 
then, he hasshown complete and open contempt for the Constitution.

  Barack Obama blatantly stoked racial tensions in America, and, in the 
process, he painted a deadly target on the backs ofthe noble men and 
women in blue who risk their lives every day to protect the innocent 
citizens of this Nation.
  Barack Obama consistently subjected Americans to condescending 
lectures. If we opposed ObamaCare, we didn't want people tohave health 
insurance.
  If we opposed wasteful stimulus spending, we hated schoolteachers and 
firemen.
  If we opposed the nuclear deal with Iran, we were compared to 
terrorist-sponsoring Iranian mullahs.
  If we believe in God and exercised our Second Amendment right, we 
were bitter.
  If we didn't believe in open, unsecured borders and vetting those who 
came into this country, we were un-American.
  If we believed in protecting unborn baby girls from being killed 
simply because they are little girls, we were waging war onwomen.
  And Mr. Obama was also fond of using politically correct euphemisms 
and constantly using them to distort nearly every issue.
  Evacuation of our Embassy in Yemen was ``a reduction in staff.''
  Terror attacks are ``man-caused disasters.''
  The global war on terror is an ``overseas contingency operation.''
  An Islamic terrorist murdering 13 American soldiers is ``workplace 
violence.''
  Terrorists beheading children, crucifying women, and burning men 
alive in the name of Islam are ``individuals from variousreligions'' 
who practice ``hateful ideologies.''
  Veterans, pro-life groups, and States' rights advocates were listed 
as ``at-risk'' to become domestic terrorists.
  Mr. Speaker, from day one, Barack Obama considered the cold war a 
giant misunderstanding. He did his famous reset withRussia and then 
turned and caved into everything that they wanted. Mr. Obama's policies 
of weakness and appeasement yieldedCrimea, the South China Sea, the 
rise of the Islamic State, the return of Iran, and the unspeakable 
desecration of thousandsupon thousands of innocent people in Aleppo 
where the result to date is now where 4 million refugees and 400,000 
people aredead. And during the so-called Arab Spring, the Obama 
administration sided with the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt.
  At the end of the Obama administration, the only countries in the 
world that we have better relations with are Iran andCuba--and even 
that has been entirely on their terms.
  Mr. Speaker, the average number of innocents killed by terrorists 
before the Obama Presidency was approximately 3,000 peryear in the 
world. Now, under Barack Obama, it is probably 30,000 every year. Mr. 
Obama labeled the Islamic State a juniorvarsity team, and then stood by 
with a golf club in his hand while ISIS raped, butchered, and beheaded 
its way across Iraq,selling little, 6-year-old girls into slavery, 
burning people alive, and perpetrating a genocide against Christians 
and Yazidis.The Islamic State now keeps an estimated 3,000 girls and 
women in sexual slavery while Mr. Obama runs out the clock on his 
termof office and hands the fight against ISIS off to the next 
President.
  Because of his delusional negotiation and acquiescence, the Islamic 
Republic of Iran, the number one sponsor of terrorism inthis world, may 
place the finger of jihad on the launch button of an entire nuclear 
arsenal; and America's children and futuregenerations may thereafter be 
forced to live their lives in the shadow of nuclear terrorism.
  Mr. Obama stood before a group of thousands of supporters of Israel 
and proclaimed: ``When the chips are down, I haveIsrael's back.'' But 
then as President, he blatantly refused even to acknowledge Jerusalem 
as Israel's capital and consistentlyexpressed more open rebuke toward 
Israel than he did toward Iran for building an entire nuclear effort to 
some day threaten theworld.
  I am going to say that again, Mr. Speaker.
  As President, Mr. Obama blatantly refused to even acknowledge 
Jerusalem as Israel's capital. And he consistently expressedmore open 
rebuke toward Israel for building houses in its capital city than he 
expressed for Iran's efforts to build nuclearweapons with which to 
existentially threaten Israel along with the peace and security of the 
entire human family.
  In the political safety of his lameduck, he orchestrated and failed 
to veto a resolution that undermines Israel's very rightto exist. Mr. 
Speaker, it was a cowardly act of political treachery that disgraced 
the United States, and it will send BarackObama's name down the 
corridor of history as on overt traitor to the State of Israel.
  When the Security Council Quartet meets on January 15 and the full 
United Nations Security Council meets

[[Page H382]]

on January17, I am gravely concerned that Barack Obama will overturn 
U.S. precedent going back to Lyndon Johnson and use the opportunityto 
stab Israel in the back one final time by allowing the anti-Semites at 
the U.N. to attempt to redraw the map of Israel toindefensible pre-1967 
borders, which would leave the only Jewish state less than 9 miles 
wide.
  Mr. Speaker, no government leader has any greater responsibility than 
that of protecting the innocent. Yet, Mr. Obama stoodby and allowed not 
only ISIS, Boko Haram, Russia, and Syria, but also Planned Parenthood 
to brutally desecrate the innocent on ahorrific scale.

                              {time}  2015

  President Barack Obama went to great efforts, against taxpayers' 
wishes, to give billions of taxpayer dollars to PlannedParenthood to 
expand abortion on demand in America and throughout the world and to 
proactively promote policies to allow theindiscriminate killing of 
these, the most defenseless of all human beings.
  As President, he appointed an empire of radically pro-abortion judges 
and government bureaucrats. When he was in the Statelegislature, Barack 
Obama actually voted ``no'' four times on a bill that would have 
protected babies after they were bornalive.
  In the U.S. Senate, Mr. Obama voted ``no'' on a bill that would have 
prohibited someone from taking a minor child out ofState for an 
abortion without even notifying the child's parents.
  He vowed to veto the Prenatal Nondiscrimination Act, which would 
prohibit discriminating against an unborn baby girl bysubjecting her to 
abortion simply because she is a little girl instead of a little boy.
  He promised to veto the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, a 
bill that would have protected both mothers and theirlittle pain-
capable babies between the beginning of their sixth month of pregnancy 
from the unspeakable cruelty of PlannedParenthood and evil monsters 
like Kermit Gosnell.
  Mr. Speaker, perhaps most astonishingly, Barack Obama, the President 
of the United States and the leader of the free world,wrote a letter to 
Congress and said he would veto the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors 
Protection Act to protect breathing, crying,kicking, born-alive human 
babies if it ever reached his desk.
  Mr. Speaker, could not the President have agreed that little human 
babies who survive abortion and are born alive should beprotected?
  President Barack Obama's record is crystal clear. For his entire 
political life, he has strongly supported the fulllegalization of 
abortion on demand throughout all 9 months of pregnancy, for any reason 
or no reason, including sex selection,throughout all 9 months of 
pregnancy, and forcing American taxpayers to pay for it whether the 
taxpayers liked it or not.
  Under Barack Obama, nearly 9 million innocent, defenseless little 
American babies were aborted before they ever saw thefirst smile of 
their mother.
  Ironically, President Obama was in the unique position, perhaps among 
all other Presidents in history, of bringing thiscountry together to 
protect these helpless little children. Yet, as the most powerful human 
being in the world, Mr. Obama choseto become the most powerful enemy of 
the most helpless human beings in the world. And nothing will stain his 
legacy or hisclaims of looking out for the little guy with more shame 
than going down in history as the ``Abortion President.''
  Mr. Speaker, it gives me no pleasure to lay out this record. I truly 
and sincerely hoped for God's best for Barack Obamawhen he took office. 
I wrote him a letter, hoping that he would be remembered as someone who 
stood up for the Constitution andstood up for the innocent.
  But in a Republic like ours, where the people are the final arbiters 
of our public policy and where those who would subvertthis Republic 
consistently resort to deception and historical revisionism, an 
accurate record is vital to our Nation's survivaland its future 
generations.
  So, alas, Mr. Speaker, I am afraid Barack Obama tragically wasted his 
precious and historic opportunity. However, this isthe true record of 
President Barack Obama and, to paraphrase William Wilberforce: We may 
choose to look the other way, but wecan never again say that we did not 
know.
  Mr. Speaker, Under President Obama, as of 2015, Democrats lost 900+ 
state legislature seats, 12 governors, 69 House seats,13 Senate seats. 
Mr. Obama lost more U.S. Senate and U.S. House seats than any president 
since FDR. I would suggest this was notcaused by a lack of political 
skills. It was Mr. Obama's policies and his attitude toward democracy 
and the Constitution thatwere so devastating to his Democrat party.
  From the beginning of his presidency it was President Obama's 
theological conviction that America needed to be transformedinto 
something far afield of the founding fathers dream.
  Last night the President gave his farewell address to the country. In 
his speech, President Obama praised Americanexceptionalism for the 
first time in his presidency. Unfortunately Mr. Speaker, much of the 
remainder of the president's speechwas far removed from reality.
  Mr. Obama implied that his presidency increased America's wealth and 
power and respect. The truth is that under Mr. Obama'spresidency, the 
trust and respect from both friend and foe for America has been 
demonstrably diminished across the world. Mr.Obama in fact weakened our 
economy and led the most anemic military campaign in our history.
  One of the most important elements of this Republic is the ability of 
the people to understand and remember the publicactions and record of 
those they elect. This is vital to the future direction of future 
generations of this country.
  So I come before the House today in order to lay out, and call for 
the American people to reflect upon, the true record ofBarack Obama's 
Presidency.
  During this crucial moment of self-reflection happening in our great 
Republic, it is incumbent upon us to look back over thepast eight years 
to fully comprehend what are the wages of two full terms of Progressive 
governance under President BarackObama. Because Mr. Speaker, if Hillary 
Clinton had been elected president, the left-wing, mindset to ignore 
the foundations ofthis nation, the Constitution, and so many millions 
of those it was designed to protect, would have continued unabated and 
thisRepublic may have been lost.
  Mr. Speaker, I solemnly wonder if America as a nation and Americans 
as individuals truly comprehend how close we came toactually losing 
this Republic and the founding fathers dream during the last election.
  As Americans soberly reflect on that reality, let us now recall the 
grand promise of candidate Barack Obama, bedecked withGreek columns and 
the rhetoric of bipartisan unity as he was, and compare it to the 
actual legacy of President Barack Obama--thepartisan heckler at home 
and the lead-from-behind, apologize for America, academic abroad who 
was ever more eager to forceCatholic nuns to buy birth control than he 
was to fight the ruthless butchers of the Islamic State.
  So Mr. Speaker, what follows is the record and the legacy of Barack 
Hussein Obama:


                            Economic Growth

  Obama's presidency will be the first in modern times whose eight 
years in office will fail to include at least one year of 3percent 
economic growth.
  Mr. Obama has taken credit for a growing economy, but after his 
failed stimulus, his was the worst economic recovery inhistory.
  Using the broadest measure of economic progress, growth in output, 
the growth rate over the first 25 quarters under Reaganwas 34 percent 
versus 14.3 percent under Obama.
  Yet, Under Barack Obama, the growth of a ravenous Leviathan called 
the federal government, grew larger and larger in scopeand in power 
every single year he was president.


                              UNEMPLOYMENT

  Under Barack Obama's presidency the number of Long-Term unemployed 
eclipsed 15 million for the first time in history.
  As the Los Angeles Times notes, ``The longer people remain jobless, 
the more likely they are to suffer the scarring effectsof unemployment 
that can hurt their earnings permanently and create a cycle of 
instability.


                        Work Force Participation

  The percentage of people participating in the labor market in January 
fell to 62.7 percent its lowest rate in 31 years.
  On his watch, the number of people forced to work part time for 
economy reasons eclipsed 8 million for the first time inhistory.
  On his watch, the average time it takes Americans to find a job 
reached the highest total in the history of the statisticbeing 
measured.
  The unemployment rate among African Americans was nearly double what 
it was for white Americans
  And today 95 million Americans, the highest number in history, are 
now not in the workforce in America.


                               Inflation

  Under Barack Obama, American Families faced Higher Costs on Nearly 
Everything:

[[Page H383]]

Spending on gas, groceries, utilitybills and health insurance premiums 
skyrocketed.
  However Wages were Down: according to the latest numbers from the 
Census Bureau household incomes fell by more than $2,100in inflation-
adjusted terms,''


                                 TAXES

  When it came to taxes, Barack Obama said, ``No family making less 
than $250,000 a year will see any form of tax increase.''He said that 
he ``Will eliminate all income taxation of seniors making less than 
$50,000 per year. This will eliminate taxes for7 million seniors--
saving them an average of $1,400 a year--and will also mean that 27 
million seniors will not need to file anincome tax return, at all.''
  However, Mr. Speaker, Obamacare alone contained at least 20 new or 
higher taxes on American families and small businesses,representing 
over $1 trillion in tax increases, the largest tax increase in history. 
It has produced a crippling effect on theworking and middle class. Mr. 
Obama's tax increases include the Individual Mandate Excise Tax, 
Employer Mandate Tax, Surtax onInvestment Income, taxes on health 
savings accounts, a hike in the Medicare Payroll Tax, and the 
elimination of the taxdeduction for employer-provided retirement 
prescription drug coverage.


                                Poverty

  Under Barack Obama the number of Americans living at or below the 
poverty line went up 5.5 million between 2008 and 2013. Arecord number 
of 45.3 million Americans now live in poverty.
  Under Mr. Obama's presidency, the income gap between rich and poor 
reached its highest level in over 40 years, and theAmerican poverty 
rate hit the highest level in the 52 year history of the statistic 
being measured.


                    Number of People on Food Stamps

  According to a report in the Washington Examiner, the number of Able-
Bodied adults on food stamps doubled, from 1.9 millionin 2008 to 3.9 
million in 2010, when Mr. Obama suspended the work requirement.
  On his watch, more than 43 million Americans were receiving food 
stamps, that's an increase of 23% since January 2009 andmore than at 
any time in American history.


                             National Debt

  Barack Obama said, ``I will not sign a plan that adds one dime to our 
deficits, either now or in the future.'' And ``Today,I'm pledging to 
cut the deficit we inherited in half by the end of my first term in 
office.''
  Yet the reality was that under Mr. Obama's presidency, America had 
the first $1 trillion deficit in history. He raised thedebt ceiling 
time and time again. He used scare tactics against seniors (``he said 
quote ``cannot guarantee'' Social Securitychecks will go out) as a 
means of getting way with another debt ceiling raise and Standard & 
Poor downgraded the U.S. governmentfrom its 70 year AAA credit rating 
for the first time in history.
  He instituted Federal bailouts, including bailouts that went to 
hundreds of millions in executive bonuses. The Obamagovernment alone 
was equal to the entire United States' population in 1776. And he 
robbed the children coming up around herknees of their economic future 
and placed them on the path to national bankruptcy in order to ensure 
his radical, big-governmentagenda was implemented. Barack Obama single-
handedly added almost as much deficit to the national debt as all of 
the otherpresidents in the 240 year history of the United States of 
America combined.


                           Military Readiness

  Mr. Obama engineered the sequester on the military which had 
devastating consequences to our ability to fight and win warswhen 
necessary. The army is now the smallest it has been since Pearl Harbor; 
the Navy has shrunk to WWI levels; missile defensewas cut every year he 
was in office, and the Pentagon was turned into a politically correct 
playground for socialexperimentation. During that same time, North 
Korea, one of the most dangerous police states in the world, tested 
nuclearweapons 5 times. Mr. Obama's was the opposite of a commitment to 
peace through strength.
  The reason President Obama's legacy will be endless war is because 
America's enemies knew he never had the commitment or thewill to win 
any war. So all they had to do was wait him out. And that's exactly 
what they did; and so many people suffered anddied as a result.
  When Mr. Obama was negotiating the New Start Treaty, he was caught on 
camera secretly asking Russian President Medvedev to``Give me more time 
until the elections''. At least he meant for it to be a secret. Then 
after the elections he gave up far morethat America got in return in 
that treaty, demonstrably diminished the strength of our nuclear 
deterrent and gave Russia alopsided advantage over America in tactical 
nuclear weapons. I pray our children and grandchildren do not pay 
unthinkable pricesomeday for the feckless and cowardly policy Mr. Obama 
negotiated.


                            Justice at Home

  When it came to justice at home, Barack Obama fundamentally sought to 
abrogate religious freedom in America and heweaponized the Internal 
Revenue Service, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Attorney 
Gen.'s office and the JusticeDepartment against America's own citizens. 
It was and is the epitome of tyranny.
  President Obama turned the criminal justice system upside down. He 
commuted the sentences of 774 federal inmates which ismore than the 
previous 11 presidents combined. He issued 590 commutations in the year 
2016 alone, which is the highest in U.S.history according to his own 
White House. Mr. Obama pardoned a total of 148 people during his 
presidency and has shortened thesentences of 1,176 people, including 
395 serving life sentences.
  Yet during his presidency, in Mr. Obama's hometown of Chicago alone, 
a city where his policies on gun control are thestrictest in the 
nation, there were nearly 800 murders this year alone which is the 
highest in history.
  It was also Mr. Obama's administration that told us that mud puddles 
are navigable waters, that a tax is not a tax, that anexchange created 
by the federal government is an exchange created by a state, and that 
bureaucrats had more right's then parentsto decide their child's 
education and that adult male transvestites had the moral and legal 
right to go into the bathroom withlittle schoolgirls whether their 
parents liked it or not.


                          Illegal Immigration

  Mr. Obama unconstitutionally ignored and selectively applied 
America's immigration laws perhaps because he saw those comingacross 
the border into this country illegally, not as illegal immigrants, but 
as unregistered democrats.
  President Obama never gained control of the border and in fact, Mr. 
Obama unconstitutionally ignored and selectively appliedAmerica's 
immigration laws and illegally suspended immigration enforcement. He 
released 19,723 criminal illegal immigrants fromprison into nearly 
every state of the Union. These nearly 20,000 criminal illegal aliens 
were collectively convicted of over60,000 crimes, including over 12,000 
drunk driving convictions and over 8,000 violent crimes such as 
assault, rape, and murder.Mr. Obama's actions endangered Americans and 
denied justice to the victims of their crimes. Mr. Obama bears a share 
of theresponsibility for every crime that these criminals have 
committed or will commit against Americans since he released them 
fromprison into American society.


                               Terrorism

  When President Obama took office in January 2009, Iraq was a 
relatively stable nation. Iran was contained and ISIS did notexist. Now 
there is chaos throughout the Middle East. Vladimir Putin's Russia is 
in Syria, the Iranians have been unleashed, andISIS has raped and 
butchered its way across Iraq declaring that there would be nothing for 
Christians but the sword and historywill record that it was Barack 
Obama who willingly stood on the sidelines and knowingly let a genocide 
against Christians andYezidis happen.
  Barack Obama drew red lines he had no intention of enforcing, stood 
back and watched as Syria burned and Islamist radicalsgrew in strength 
until they exploded out of Syria to bring Hell on earth to the innocent 
men and women across the region. Todate, the result is over 4 million 
refugees and over 400,000 people dead.
  There are nine times more people killed in terrorist attacks today 
than there were in 2000. My colleagues and I earnestlywarned President 
Obama and his administration of the dangers that Boko Haram and ISIS 
represented to innocent people in Americaand the world and pleaded with 
him to take actions to prevent them from desecrating the innocent. Mr. 
Obama casually dismissedour concerns related to both of those groups. 
His administration refused to call Boko Haram a terrorist organization 
and hedismissed ISIS as ``Junior Varsity''. My colleagues and I then 
repeatedly pleaded with Mr. Obama for over a year to resolutelyrespond 
to this insidious, murderous, hellish evil. I personally asked the 
president in an open video message if he did notrealize ``that by 
ignoring this monstrous, ideological evil, that you allow it to grow, 
and you ultimately invite it to exerciseits desecration of the innocent 
within the shores of our own nation.''
  Yet, President Obama stood by casually, golf club in hand, and 
steadfastly refused ignored those entreaties. And terrorismdid return 
to America and for the first time since 9/11, innocent Americans 
citizens were murdered by terrorists on Americansoil. Today Boko Haram 
and ISIS are responsible for 51 percent, of all terrorist fatalities in 
the world. Foreign intelligenceagencies now estimate ISIS ranks are as 
large as 200,000 fighters from 90 countries. ISIS and its affiliates 
either control orhold influence in nearly 20 nations: Iraq, Syria, 
Egypt, Libya, Nigeria, Algeria, Morocco, Mali, Saudi Arabia, 
Yemen,Afghanistan, Pakistan, Lebanon, Russia, Bosnia, Philippines, 
Indonesia, and Malaysia.
  Whether they manifested themselves as the Iranian mullahs, ISIS, Boko 
Haram, Hezbollah,

[[Page H384]]

Hamas, or a dozen other names,Barack Obama refused to even call Global 
Jihadists by name and he fundamentally refused to marshal the resources 
of hispresidency to bear on behalf of the thousands of helpless victims 
they slaughtered. It is a disgrace that leaves me withoutwords to 
describe.
  Mr. Obama released five of the most dangerous Taliban leaders along 
with other terrorists held in Guantanamo Bay including182 violent 
prisoners who have been released from Guantanamo Bay, nearly 20 percent 
of whom returned to the battlefield to fightUnited States forces and 
interests the world over. Mr. Obama's ``slap on the wrist'' approach to 
national security needlesslyadded and continues to add to the dangers 
our men and women face in the fight against jihadist terrorism.
  President Obama abandoned the Iranian freedom movement in 2009 when 
the citizens of Iran took to the streets to protest therigged 
presidential election and to remove the Khamenei regime peacefully. He 
supported the release of the Lockerbie bomber. Hesupported Civilian 
trials for terrorists. Then due to those very procedural protections in 
civil court that preventedintroduction of crucial evidence, that Mr. 
Obama had been specifically and repeatedly warned about in advance, the 
civiliantrial for the evil terrorist Ahmed Ghailani led to his 
acquittal on more than 280 criminal charges of a man who openly 
admittedhis terrorist activities. And Mr. Obama specifically chose not 
to prosecute the Muslim Brotherhood in the Holy Land Foundationtrial 
when the evidence against them was absolutely overwhelming. One week 
after three Americans and our Ambassador were killedby Terrorists in 
Benghazi, Mr. Obama and his administration stood in front of flag 
draped coffins and lied to the Americanpeople about what really 
happened.
  The average number of Innocents killed by terrorists before the Obama 
presidency was 3000 per year; now under Barack Obamait is thirty 
thousand per year. And the number of terrorists willing to blow 
themselves up to kill others is growing across theworld. The chances of 
radical Islamists getting weapons of mass destruction are also growing.


                                  iran

  ``President Obama's has been the leading apologist in the world for 
the Islamic Republic of Iran throughout his presidency.In his 
relentless quest for a nuclear deal with the Islamic regime of Iran, 
Mr. Obama simply chose to ignore the fact that Iranis the world's 
leading state sponsor of terrorism.
  The notion that the only alternative to seeking a nuclear deal with 
the corrupt Khamenei regime is war is an illusioncreated by the Obama 
administration. Obama communicated directly to Tehran through secret 
back-channels his willingness tosupport Khamenei. The truth is that the 
oppressed majority of the Iranian people did not then, and do not 
today, support theKhamenei regime's nuclear program and in fact 
desperately want to be rid of this poisonous regime.
  Mr. Obama, with the help of liberal Democrats in Congress and the 
embrace of the left, got his deal with Iran at all costs.The left 
embraced it. But did Iran open its doors to U.S. goods? No. The 
Ayatollah banned them. Did Iran renounce its supportfor terrorism? No. 
It renewed support for Hamas, sent troops to Syria and armed rebels in 
Yemen. Is Iran acting like aresponsible regional power? No. In blatant 
violation of U.N. sanctions, Iran is testing nuclear-capable missiles 
and firingrockets near U.S. ships. And when the U.S. threatened to 
respond to Iran's missile violations, did Iran back down? No. 
Iran's``moderate'' president ordered his military to accelerate Iran's 
missile program. The Iranians believe Mr. Obama is a totalpushover. Mr. 
Obama said he was promoting peace, but he really only projected 
weakness and the world's dictators took notice.
  To pave the way for his insane nuclear agreement with Iran, Mr. Obama 
ordered the CIA to sever contacts with green movementsupporters and 
even ended U.S. programs to document Iranian human rights abuses. It 
seems there was nothing the Mr. Obama wasnot willing to sacrifice upon 
the altar of the Iranian nuclear deal. To begin finalizing the Iran 
agreement, Mr. Obama broughtin John Kerry and the same basic team which 
negotiated the nuclear deal with North Korea that paved the way for 
North Korea togain the nuclear weapons they have today--North Korea, if 
you need to be reminded, is the same country which just this 
yearconducted a nuclear test, an ICBM test, and a submarine launched 
ballistic missile test. From day one and the eight years thatfollowed 
it has overwhelmed comprehension how divorced the Obama Administration 
has been from reality.
  And Mr. Speaker, what exactly did the U.S. from the Iran Deal? A 
completely unverifiable and tacit agreement from Iran thatit will not 
make a nuclear weapon in the next ten years. And that promise from the 
jihadist government of Iran was good enoughfor Barack Obama. And Mr. 
Speaker, what did Iran get out of the deal? The world's leading sponsor 
of terrorism received $1.8Billion in freed assets, a lifting of the 
arms embargoes in five years, the toothless U.N. ban on Iran missile 
development--whichof course they are actively and continuously 
violating. And after eight years, Iran will [quote] ``then be allowed 
to build anindustrial-scale nuclear program, with hundreds of thousands 
of machines, after a ten year period of restraint.'' [end quote] 
Inorder to reach this agreement, Obama ordered the executive branch to 
cease categorizing Iranian human rights abuses, and now hehas also 
illegally paid $400 Million in ransom for American hostages abducted by 
the Iranian regime, he has ceded control ofIraq to Iran, he has ignored 
Iranian development of missiles capable of delivering nuclear weapons, 
and--most significantly--hehas ensured the Iranian regime may legally 
develop nuclear weapons in the coming decade.
  After the nuclear deal, Iran became only more arrogant and bold. They 
seized two American naval vessels, took ten sailorshostage, and only 
released them after the Administration apologized. An Iranian general 
said the seizure of our ships was awarning to Congress against imposing 
new sanctions for Iran's illegal nuclear missile tests. Iran's intent 
and track record iscrystal clear to almost everyone it seems, but to 
President Obama.
  The hallmark of Barack Obama's presidency has been that of weakening, 
disarming, diminishing and apologizing for the UnitedStates of America. 
For years many of us watched in utter disbelief at the great lengths to 
which the Obama Administration hasgone in order to secure a deal at any 
price with Iran on their nuclear weapons program. He has capitulated on 
every red line andminimum requirement that both he and the United 
Nations had required. He has now squandered away every form of leverage 
we hadagainst this theocratic radial regime which has broken every 
promise it has ever made to us. The jihadist leaders of Iran cameto the 
table with nothing and walked away with everything. And now, instead of 
making sure they never get a nuclear weapon,Barack Obama's politically 
motivated, peace-in-our-time capitulation has strengthened Iran's 
ability to foment terrorismthroughout the world as it has for the last 
40 years. And, now, because of his delusional negotiation and 
acquiescence, thisIslamic Republic of Iran, the number one sponsor of 
terrorism in the world, has become a nation on a path (cleared for them 
byPresident Barack Obama) to obtaining a nuclear weapons capability. 
Indeed, Mr. Obama's actions may place the finger of Jihad onthe launch 
button of an entire nuclear arsenal; and America's children and future 
generations may thereafter be forced to livetheir lives in the shadow 
of nuclear terrorism.


                              Constitution

  Perhaps Mr. Obama's biggest broken promise to all Americans was when 
he said, ``I, Barack Hussein Obama, do solemnly swearthat I will 
execute the office of President of the United States faithfully, and 
will to the best of my ability, preserve,protect, and defend the 
constitution of the United States. Whether we're talking about 
Obamacare, or Mr. Obama's administrationweaponizing the IRS to target 
conservative groups, seizing the phone records of the Associated Press, 
Suggesting that Fox Newsreporter James Rosen was a criminal without 
evidence as an excuse to monitor his phone and e-mail, appointing Czars 
with noaccountability, appointing Assistant AG Thomas Perez who 
steadfastly refused to affirm 1st Amendment Rights, called 
theConstitution an ``imperfect document'' that ``reflected the 
fundamental flaw of the country that continues to this day'', 
theseizure of the press' phone records by the Justice Department, the 
walking of guns to cartels during Operation Fast and 
Furious,unconstitutional recess appointments, unconstitutional 
executive orders or the Administration's intentional 
selectiveenforcement of the laws--This President has shown complete and 
open contempt for the Constitution as a mere obstacle to hispreferred 
`pen and phone' method of governing through an executive autocracy.
  When Barack Obama came into office only one of the 13 federal appeals 
courts had a majority of liberal Democrat appointedjudges. Now, nine of 
the 13 appeals courts have liberal Democrat appointees. Barack Obama 
nominated to individuals to theSupreme Court who have no regard 
whatsoever for the plain meaning and original intent of the 
Constitution. The lawlessness ofObama's Progressive Utopia, was one 
governed by the Pen and the Phone rather than the People. If Hillary 
Clinton had beenelected in November she would have almost certainly 
appointed At Least Three more Supreme Court Justices which would 
havecompletely abrogated the United States Constitution along with the 
first second fifth and 14th amendments and all of the othersfor 
generation or more. For the first time in its history, America would no 
longer have been governed by the United StatesConstitution as the 
supreme law of the land. There are simply no words to describe the 
existential threat to the AmericanRepublic that Hillary

[[Page H385]]

Clinton would have inevitably represented if she had been elected 
president of the United States.Without the American Constitution there 
would have been no free America and without a free America there would 
have been no freeworld. The implications would have been beyond 
comprehension.


                           Religious Liberty

  Barack Obama's record is that of having assaulted centuries of legal 
precedent and medical ethics, pushing forward hiseffort to roll back 
regulations that protect physicians' rights of conscience. Amazingly, 
the Obama administration accused theCatholic nuns Little Sisters of the 
Poor, an entirely voluntary and Catholic organization dedicated to 
hospice care for theindigent, of promoting a war on women . . . for not 
agreeing to offer birth control as a Catholic health benefit, and 
thenthreatened them with $70 million a year in fines for not complying.
  The Obama administration essentially argued before the Supreme Court 
that the religious ministerial exception that had beenbedrock law since 
the Constitution was written did not actually exist and that neither 
the Free Exercise Clause nor theEstablishment Clause has anything to 
say about a church's relationship with its own employees. In a 9-0 
opinion, the SupremeCourt unanimously rejected the Administration's 
position, stating that ``imposing an unwanted minister, the state 
infringes theFree Exercise Clause, which protects a religious group's 
right to shape its own faith and mission through its 
appointments.''Despite Barack Obama's supposed expertise on the 
Constitution, his administration has lost more 9-0 Supreme Court cases 
thanany other Administration in history and no president in history 
ever posed more overt danger to religious freedom in Americathan Barack 
Obama.
  Mr. Obama casually ignored the historical and constitutional fact 
that religious liberty involves much more than freedom ofworship alone, 
and that the fundamental rights of free speech and the free exercise of 
religion do not stop at the exit door ofthe local house of worship, but 
instead, extends to every area of life. Mr. Obama refused respect the 
public component ofreligious liberty, and failed to accommodate 
religion in our generally applicable laws, and placed in grave danger, 
thereligious freedom in the Constitution which undergirds everything 
that is America.


                             RaceRelations

  Barack Obama blatantly stoked racial tensions and in the process he 
painted a target on the backs of the noble men and womenin blue who 
risk their lives every day to protect the innocent citizens of this 
country. Some people even went looking toassassinate police officers. 
And the result was that innocent Americans within both law enforcement 
and the minority communitydied across America for no reason. Barack 
Obama had an historic opportunity to unite America in a profound way. 
Instead, hechose for temporary political gain to become the divider and 
chief by seeking to divide America by race andclass.


          MR. OBAMA'S CONDESCENSION TOWARD THE AMERICAN PEOPLE

  Barack Obama consistently subjected Americans to condescending 
lectures. Because he was a Progressive Politician who hadattended the 
right schools held the right internships, and had the right credentials 
he knew what was best for us farm betterthan we did that he was morally 
empowered to properly order the minutiae of the lives of all of the 
American people.
  If we opposed Obamacare we didn't want people to have health 
insurance.
  If we opposed wasteful stimulus spending, we hated school teachers 
and firemen.
  If we opposed the nuclear deal with Iran, we were compared to 
terrorist sponsoring Iranian Mullahs.
  If we believe in God and exercise our Second Amendment Right, we were 
bitter.
  If we didn't believe in open, unsecured borders and vetting those who 
come into this country, we were un-American.
  And If we believed unborn baby girls should be protected under the 
law, we were waging a war on women.
  And Mr. Obama was also fond of using politically correct euphemisms 
and constantly use them to distort nearly every issue:
  (1) Evacuation of our Embassy in Yemen was ``a reduction in staff'
  (2) Terror attacks are ``man-caused disasters''
  (3) Global war on terror is an ``overseas contingency operation''
  (4) An Islamic terrorist murdering 13 American soldiers is 
``workplace violence''
  (5) Terrorists beheading children, crucifying women, and burning men 
alive in the name of Islam are ``individuals fromvarious religions'' 
who practice ``hateful ideologies''
  (6) Veterans, pro-life groups, and state rights' advocates were 
listed as ``at-risk'' to become domestic terrorists


                               obama care

  Mr. Obama's signature policy achievement was the so-called Affordable 
Care Act. As we have learned year after year,essentially nothing Mr. 
Obama said about the Affordable Care Act was true. He told us his 
mother's health insurance denied herpaying for her cancer treatments--
but it was a blatant falsehood. He told America--many, many times--that 
if we liked our plan andour doctor, we could keep our plan and our 
doctor--but it was a blatant falsehood. In fact, Mr. Obama's speech 
writers jokedabout deliberately putting that blatant falsehood over on 
Charlie Rose, who, like many in the media, never pressed the issue.
  Mr. Obama even deceived and betrayed Bart Stupak from his own party 
and used a myriad of special political handouts like theCornhusker 
Kickback and the Louisiana Purchase to scrape together the support to 
shove a giant government takeover of thehealthcare industry down the 
American people's throats and then raided the coffers of Medicare to 
the tune of over $700 billionto help pay for it.
  Anyone with a basic understanding of economics warned was going to 
wreak havoc upon the insurance market. Barack Obama said,``Obamacare 
means more choice, more competition, lower costs.'' But now under Mr. 
Obama's presidency, the Cost of Average FamilyHealth Insurance Plan has 
gone from $12,680 to over $25,000. Barack Obama said the ACA will cost 
around $900 billion over 10years; in reality it is at least $2 trillion 
or more. Mr. Obama said that it would lower health insurance premiums 
by $2,500 perfamily. In 42 states, many premiums increased by over 100 
percent. Mr. Obama said, ``If you like your doctor, you can keep 
yourdoctor'' That was a blatant falsehood. Mr. Obama said, ``I will 
protect Medicare.'' That was a blatant falsehood. He robbedMedicare to 
pay for Obama care. He said, ``Obama care will cover every American.'' 
That was a blatant falsehood. Millions remainuninsured. Healthcare 
costs have never been higher and the entire debacle called Obamacare is 
now catastrophically collapsingbefore our very eyes.


                             foreign-policy

  From day one Barack Obama considered the Cold War a giant 
misunderstanding. He did his famous reset with Russia and thenturned 
and caved into everything they wanted. Mr. Obama cancelled the missile 
defense site and betrayed the Czech Republic andPoland to placate 
Russia. He told Russian President Medvedev he would be more flexible 
after his re-election on missile defense.
  Barack Obama lifted sanctions on the communist dictatorship of Cuba 
and the Islamist dictatorship of Iran. He has held ourallies and the 
enemies of human freedom to different standards, restoring diplomatic 
relations with Cuba and making economicconcessions to their government 
with no reciprocity on human rights. President Obama praised the 
murderous dictator when heoffered condolences after Castro's death. For 
decades, Democrats and Republicans alike maintained consistent 
policies. At theend of the Obama administration, the only countries in 
the world that we have better relations with under Barack Obama are 
Iranand Cuba--and even that has been entirely on their terms. The 
Saudis are so furious with Obama's surrender to Iran that they 
arethreatening to develop their own nuclear weapons.
  Mr. Obama's policies of weakness and appeasement yielded Crimea, the 
South China Sea, the rise of the Islamic State, thereturn of Iran, and 
the unspeakable desecration of the innocent in Aleppo.
  Mr. Obama said we were exercising leadership in Syria. But under his 
``leadership,'' he drew a red line and then ran fromit. Iran and Russia 
are now taking the lead in Syria. While he talks about leadership, his 
lack of action contributed to 400,000human beings dead and generated 4 
million migrants who are now destabilizing Europe.
  The commentary of Jared Hatch of the Young Leaders Program at the 
Heritage Foundation said it this way:
  ``Contemplating the extermination of Aleppo and its people, I was 
reminded of a sentence that I read this summer. Itappeared in an 
encomium to Elie Wiesel shortly after his death. It was a sterling 
sentence. It declared: ``We must never bebystanders to injustice or 
indifferent to suffering.'' That was Wiesel's teaching, exactly. The 
problem with the sentence isthat it was issued by the White House and 
attributed to President Obama. And so the sentence was not at all 
sterling. It wasoutrageously hypocritical.
  How dare Obama, and members of his administration, speak this way? 
After five years and more in which the United States'inaction in Syria 
has transformed our country into nothing other than a bystander to the 
greatest atrocity of our time, theyhave forfeited the right to this 
language. Their angry and anguished utterances are merely the 
manipulation of the rhetoric ofconscience on behalf of a policy without 
a trace of conscience. You cannot be cold-hearted and high-minded at 
the same time.Historians will record--they will not have to dig deeply 
or interpret wildly to conclude--that all through the excruciations 
ofAleppo, and more generally of Syria, the

[[Page H386]]

United States watched. As we watched, we made excuses, and occasionally 
weornamented our excuses with eloquence. The president is enamored of 
his eloquence. But eloquence is precisely what the 
wrenchingcircumstances do not require of him. In circumstances of moral 
(and strategic) emergency, his responsibility is not to move us.It is 
to pick up the phone. ``Elie did more than just bear witness,'' Obama 
said in his eulogy, ``he acted.'' And he added:``Just imagine the peace 
and justice that would be possible in our world if more people lived a 
little more like Elie Wiesel.''Just imagine.
  If Obama wants credit for not getting us into another war, the credit 
is his. If he wants credit for not being guilty of``overreach,'' the 
credit is his. If he wants credit for conceiving of every obstacle and 
impediment to American action in everycorner of the globe, the credit 
is his. But it is a shameful and incontrovertible fact of our history 
that during the past eightyears the values of rescue, assistance, 
protection, humanitarianism and democracy have been demoted in our 
foreign policy and inmany instances banished altogether. The ruins of 
the finest traditions of American internationalism, of American 
leadership in adarkening world, may be found in the ruins of Aleppo. 
Our ostentatious passivity is a primary cause of that darkening. When 
theygo low, we go home. The Obama legacy in foreign policy is vacuum-
creation, which his addled America-First successor will happilyratify. 
Aleppo was not destroyed by the Syrian army. It was destroyed by a 
savage coalition led and protected by Russia. Whilethey massacred 
innocent men, women and children, we anxiously pondered scenarios of 
``deconfliction.''
  We need to be unforgivingly clear. The obligation to act against evil 
in Aleppo was no different from the obligation to actagainst the evil 
in Sarajevo and Srebrenica. (Has anyone ever heard Mr. Obama mention 
Bosnia?) It was no different from theobligation to act against the evil 
in Rwanda. It was no different from the obligation to act against the 
evil in Auschwitz. Andwe scorned the obligation. We learned nothing. We 
forgot everything. We failed. We did not even try.
  No, that is not quite right. It would be incorrect to analyze our 
delinquency in Syria in the dichotomously simple terms ofaction and 
inaction. The administration creatively pioneered a third option, which 
it pursued not only in Syria but also inUkraine and elsewhere: Between 
action and inaction, it chose inconsequential action. There is the 
Obama doctrine! We backedmoderate Syrian rebels, but not as seriously 
or as generously as the immoderate Syrian rebels were backed. We sent 
in smallnumbers of special operators. The CIA ran a few programs. We 
acted, in sum, only in ways certain not to affect the outcome. Wewere 
strategically feckless. I suspect that the president believes that the 
United States has no moral right to affect anoutcome in another 
country. I suspect that he regards such decisive action as imperialism, 
or at least as Iraq-like. What thismeans in practice is that we will 
not help people who deserve our help. In the spirit of respecting other 
societies, we willidly gaze at their destruction. How would 
disrespecting them be worse?
  As a direct or indirect consequence of our refusal to respond 
forcefully to the Syrian crisis, we have beheld seculartyranny, 
religious tyranny, genocide, chemical warfare, barrel bombs and cluster 
bombs, the torture and murder of children, thedisplacement of 11 
million people, the destabilization of Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan, the 
ascendancy of Iran in the region, theemergence of Russia as a global 
power, the diminishment of the American position in the world, the 
refugee crisis in Europe, theresurgence of fascism in Europe and a 
significant new threat to the security of the United States. It is 
amazing how much doingnothing can do, especially when it is we who do 
nothing.
  Not long after he mourned Wiesel, the president engaged in another 
one of his exercises in empathy without consequence. Atthe U.N. Summit 
for Refugees and Migrants, he spoke of Alan Kurdi, the Syrian boy who 
washed up dead on a beach in Turkey.``That little boy on the beach 
could be our son or our grandson,'' the president moistly said. ``We 
cannot avert our eyes orturn our backs.'' And then we proceeded to 
avert our eyes and turn our backs. The people who had the power to 
prevent, stop oreven mitigate this catastrophe should now bow their 
heads and fall silent and reflect on how it is that they brought us so 
low.Aleppo is no more, and we are weakened and disgraced.
  Mr. Speaker, it is ironic and tragic that the fall of Aleppo comes as 
Barack Obama is to leave office. Because it is one ofthe clearest 
demonstrations of how his cowardly foreign and domestic policies have 
consistently left tens of thousands ofinnocent helpless victims dead in 
his wake.
  When Islamic terrorists bombed Brussels, killing and injuring 
hundreds of people, including Americans, President Obama waseating 
cracker jacks at a baseball game rubbing elbows with a communist 
dictator.
  When the Benghazi tragedy occurred in the middle of a presidential 
election, and three Americans and our ambassador weremurdered by 
terrorists the Obama Administration's spin-masters told us it was 
because of a YouTube video. It was a dark anddeliberate lie to the 
American people in front of flag-draped coffins and was an egregious 
example of the Obama Administration'sastonishing lack of accountability 
and transparency.
  At a time when noble Americans were fighting and dying in the sands 
of Iraq to secure a lasting peace and bring stability tothe region, 
Senator Obama vigorously opposed the Surge in Iraq and said [quote] ``I 
am not persuaded that 20,000 additionaltroops in Iraq is going to solve 
the sectarian violence there, in fact I think it will do the reverse . 
. . I am going toactively oppose the president's proposal.'' [end 
quote]. In spite of the opposition to the Surge from Senator Obama, 
SenatorReid, and many other partisan Democrats notwithstanding, General 
Petraeus and our unbelievably courageous men and women inuniform were 
able to snatch victory from the jaws of defeat--decimating Al-Qaeda in 
Iraq, halting sectarian violence, andachieving a sustainable peace. As 
thanks for this historic military feat, the Left in America called him 
``General Betray Us,''and Senator Hillary Clinton said his reports to 
the Senate by General Petraeus required the ``willing suspension of 
disbelief.''
  This was a despicable display of hyper-partisanship on the part of 
Mr. Obama and the Democrats who refused to acceptAmerican victory in 
Iraq. But then of course, the Obama Administration would go on to claim 
the peace in Iraq as one of theirforeign policy achievements.
  Then in spite of the prescient advice President Bush gave on July 12, 
2007 and the warnings of countless generals, Obamaignored his 
commanders and precipitously withdrew our troops from Iraq. Even as we 
withdrew our troops, Vice PresidentBiden said of Iraq [quote] ``I think 
it's going to be one of the great achievements of this Administration. 
You're going tosee 90,000 troops come marching home by the end of the 
summer, you're going to see a stable government in Iraq that is 
movingtowards a representative government . . . '' [end quote]
   is precisely because of President Obama's petulant decision to keep 
his politically motivated campaign promise to removeall our troops from 
Iraq that the Islamic State was able to form, spread across the region, 
and bring about a brutal reign ofevil the likes of which the world has 
not seen since the Mongols rampaged across Asia.
  Right after the Islamic state entered Iraq, many of us in Congress 
wrote a letter to Mr. Obama beseeching him to understandthe danger of 
this terrorist organization and imploring him to respond while there 
was time. Astoundingly, Mr. Obama labeled theIslamic state a junior 
varsity team and his administration stood by with the collective golf 
club in their hand while ISIS rapedand murdered and beheaded its way 
across Iraq, selling six-year-old girls into slavery and burning people 
alive. The IslamicState now keeps an estimated 3,000 young girls and 
women in sexual slavery, and they are being beaten and raped day after 
day.It is mind-numbingly horrific to know what these innocent girls are 
going through every day while Mr. Obama runs out the clockon his term 
of office and hands the fight against ISIS off to the next president. 
Under Mr. Obama's administration the murder ofinnocent people by 
terrorists increased almost tenfold. Then when President Obama drew his 
famous red line in Syria, BashirAssad had been paying attention and he 
knew he could simply ignore this red line in the sand for what it was. 
And he proceededto do just that and he remains in power to this day 
slaughtering the moderate rebels and the Kurds fighting ISIS.
  In response to the onslaught of ISIS, President Obama launched one of 
the most anemic and pathetic air campaigns in modernhistory and ISIS 
grew to somewhere around 40,000 fighters under President Obama's watch. 
He enabled ISIS to grow andmetastasize, attract and radicalize 
countless young men from the West who will attempt to return home and 
unleash their virulentbrand of Islam upon innocent Europeans and 
Americans as we have so tragically seen in France, Brussels, and even 
in the UnitedStates. During the so-called Arab Spring the Obama 
administration sided with the Muslim brotherhood in Egypt.
  Barack Obama mocked Mitt Romney during their second presidential 
debate, saying ``The 1980s are now calling to ask for theirforeign 
policy back.'' Mr. Speaker--would to God that we could get the foreign 
policy from the 1980s back! For eight years BarackObama ignored the 
fact that Vladimir Putin is a KGB killer intent on restoring Russia to 
its Soviet-era in prayer for error. Andit has been an absolute national 
embarrassment to watch this Russian thug unceremoniously mop the floor 
and the map of the worldwith the President of the United States.

[[Page H387]]

  In his first year of office, and on the very day of the 70th 
anniversary of Soviet Invasion Day in Poland, President Obamabetrayed 
our European allies. The Czechs and the Poles had risked the survival 
of their governments by agreeing to implement amissile-shield in their 
countries that could have significantly devalued Iran's entire nuclear 
missile pursuits and even one daymay have protected America from the 
Iranian nuclear missiles. But to placate a revanchist Russia Barack 
Obama blatantly betrayedboth the Czechs and the Poles and unilaterally 
withdrew from the plan.
  Under Barack Obama, U.S. agreements with our understandably nervous 
friends in Eastern Europe were not worth the paper theywere printed on. 
Ukraine gave up its nuclear weapons with the written assurance from 
Russia and the United States of Americathat its national sovereignty 
would be protected. Then, in response to the unconscionable Russian 
invasion of Ukraine andseizure of the Crimean Peninsula, the Obama 
Administration would not even provide lethal armaments to the 
Ukrainians. Instead heoffered MREs. Then Mr. Obama evidently did not 
deem that humiliation complete until he had turned to the Russians to 
assist withSyria. The complete and total lack of leadership from the 
Obama White House once again came full circle.
  Ben Rhoades made an attempt to analyze the mindset of Barack Obama. 
He said, [quote] ``He is smarter than everyone and morethan willing to 
actively lie and obfuscate to the American people and media to effect 
his desired outcomes, despite, or in spiteof, the will of the American 
people, the law, and even common sense.''


                            our ally israel

  Barack Obama pledged [quote] ``unshakeable commitment'' [unquote] to 
Israel's security. Mr. Obama stood before a group ofthousands of 
supporters of Israel and proclaimed that ``when the chips are down, I 
have Israel's back.''
  But then as President, he blatantly refused even to acknowledge 
Jerusalem as Israel's capital. Then Mr. Obama consistentlyexpressed 
more open rebuke toward Israel for building houses in its capital city 
than he expressed for Iran's efforts to buildnuclear weapons with which 
to existentially threaten the state of Israel along with the peace and 
security of the entire humanfamily.
  Mr. Obama all but ignored Iran's call for Israel to be wiped off the 
map. He supported the unification of Fatah and Hamas.He pressured 
Israel to release over 100 murderers, rapists, and terrorists. He 
suggested that Israel return to 1967 border lineswhich would have made 
national security for the tiny nation of Israel almost impossible.
  Benjamin Netanyahu came to Congress and said ``obviously we are going 
to have to continue to prepare to defend ourselves byourselves.''
  On December 23, 2016, two days before Christmas and one day before 
the start of Hanukkah, in the waning days of hisadministration, in the 
safety of a lame-duck presidency, President Obama and Secretary Kerry 
broke with over 20 years ofbipartisan precedent and betrayed America's 
best friend in the world when he orchestrated and then refused to veto 
a UnitedNations Security Council resolution that undermined Israel's 
very right to exist.
  Under the manifestation of this resolution, Jewish citizens of Israel 
could not legally step foot into the Jewish quarter ofJerusalem (where 
they have resided for thousands of years) and they could not even stand 
in front of the Western Wall, theholiest site of Judaism. In accepting 
the factually and morally incorrect label of ``occupied'' proclaimed in 
this resolution,President Obama and Secretary Kerry have reinforced the 
position of the plethora of anti-Semites at the U.N.
  This anti-Semitic resolution fueled and lent legitimacy to the 
ongoing murderous hatred of Jews, which manifested itselfonce again two 
weeks later when an ISIS-inspired murderer rammed his truck into a 
group of 16 Jews who Obama helped label``occupiers'' by his abstention.
  In an all-too-familiar scene, thousands of people poured into the 
streets in Gaza to celebrate the murder of Jews. Amidstthe 
celebrations, candy was passed out and Fathi Hamad, the leader of the 
Hamas, issued the following statement: ``The messageof our Islamic 
party Hamas is a message of encouragement and support for every jihadi 
who carries out an attack that puts an endto the acts of the Zionist 
enemy.''
  Despite lending credence to the casus belli of the ISIS-inspired 
attack, the President has yet to comment on this despicableact of 
terrorism.
  When the Security Council Quartet meets on January 15 and the full 
UNSC meets on January 17, I am gravely concerned thatBarack Obama will 
overturn U.S. precedent going back to Lyndon Johnson and use the 
opportunity to stab Israel in the back onefinal time by allowing the 
anti-Semites at the UN to redraw the map to Israel's indefensible pre-
1967 borders--leaving theworld's only Jewish state less than 9 miles 
wide.
  Up until Barack Obama became President, America protected the State 
of Israel against the anti-Semitic mob we call theUnited Nations. The 
only thing United about the United Nations has been their consistent 
opposition to America and the state ofIsrael.
  Let me be very clear, Mr. Speaker. Orchestrating and then failing to 
veto this resolution that undermined Israel's right toexist was a 
cowardly act of political treachery by Barack Obama that has disgraced 
the United States of America and it will sendBarack Obama's name down 
the corridor of history as an overt traitor to Nation of Israel.
  It is an absolute disgrace that this President has been willing to 
sacrifice the security and stability of this vital allyand our greatest 
friend in the world, upon the altar of perceived international 
civility. It is a betrayal that history willnever forget.


                            Innocent Victims

  Perhaps the singularly saddest tragedy the Barack Obama leaves behind 
are all of the innocent victims that needed his helpso desperately and 
for whom now that help is forever too late. Mr. Obama's Administration 
consistently and unconscionablyimplemented policies across the board 
that negatively impacted the most vulnerable in human society.
  The Obama administration loosened restrictions on regimes using child 
soldiers. The Obama administration officialsrepeatedly ignored Chinese 
human rights abuses during trips to China.
  FBI statistics indicate that hate crimes against the Jewish 
population are up, but Mr. Obama was silent about that. Therewas and is 
genocide against Christians taking place in the Middle East, but he was 
also silent about that.
  He stood by and let ISIS, Boko Haram, Russia, Syria and Planned 
Parenthood brutally desecrate the innocent.


                                Abortion

  Only three days after he took office, on January 23, 2009, President 
Obama overturned America's long-standing policy, whichprohibited 
taxpayer dollars from being used to fund the killing of unborn children 
by abortion overseas. In a time of economiccrisis, President Obama 
proceeded to give millions of U.S. Taxpayer dollars to abortion 
providers in foreign countries.
  Pastor Rick Warren asked candidate Obama, ``Forty million abortions, 
at what point does a baby get human rights, in yourview?'' Mr. Obama's 
response was, ``Well, you know, I think that whether you're looking at 
it from a theological perspective ora scientific perspective, answering 
that question with specificity, you know, is above my pay grade.''
  President Barack Obama had one of the greatest opportunities ever 
afforded to any president to take his place amonghistory's most 
respected heads of state by defending the rights of the defenseless 
which is the ultimate measure of every truestatesman.
  Not only did he fail that opportunity, lie went to great effort to 
proactively promote the indiscriminate killing of themost defenseless 
of all human beings. Barack Obama worked diligently to expand abortion 
on demand in America and throughout theearth. He relentlessly worked 
against taxpayer's wishes to give billions of taxpayer dollars to 
Planned Parenthood, the largestpromoter and perpetrator of abortion on 
demand on Earth.
  Throughout his presidency, Mr. Obama surrounded himself with some of 
the most radical pro-abortion officials in publicoffice, including 
Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius, who supports 
Partial Birth Abortions, and WhiteHouse Science Advisor John Holdren, 
who has written openly about his support of radical policies like 
forced abortions andforced sterilization.
  In August 2010, authorities entered the clinic of Dr. Kermit Gosnell, 
and found a torture chamber for little babies thatdefies description 
within the constraints of the English-language.
  According to the Grand Jury report: quote ``Dr. Kermit Gosnell had a 
simple solution for unwanted babies: he killed them. Hedidn't call it 
that. He called it `ensuring fetal demise.' The way he ensured fetal 
demise was by sticking scissors in the backof the baby's neck and 
cutting the spinal cord. He called it `snipping.' Over the years there 
were hundreds of `snippings'.
  Mr. Speaker, these were born alive children murdered by having their 
spines snipped with scissors without anesthetic.
  Ashley Baldwin, one of Dr. Gosnell's employees, said she saw babies 
breathing and she described one as two feet long that nolonger had eyes 
or a mouth, but, in her words, was like making this ``screeching'' 
noise . . . and it ``sounded like a littlealien.''
  For God's sake Mr. Speaker, is that who we truly are?
  As President of the United States of America at the time, Barack 
Obama did not utter one syllable against these gutwrenching atrocities 
of Kermit Gosnell or Planned Parenthood. He lectured this country on 
almost everything and yet he wasshamefully silent in

[[Page H388]]

the face of this insidious and horrifying genocide against these 
helpless little born alive humanchildren.
  When he was in the state legislature, Mr. Obama actually voted no 
four times on a bill that would have protected crying,kicking, 
breathing babies after they were born alive.
  Mr. Obama, also consistently supported the policy that allowed more 
than 18,000 late-term, pain capable unborn babies weretorturously 
killed without anesthesia in America in just the last year. Many of 
them cried and screamed as they died, butbecause it was amniotic fluid 
going over their vocal cords instead of air, we couldn't hear them.
  In his position, President Barack Obama could have easily and 
successfully enacted policies that would have saved the vastmajority of 
the little babies like the ones Dr. Kermit Gosnell killed, yet all of 
his adult life he has actively and vigorouslysupported policies that 
not only allowed but were the direct result of them being killed.
  In 2015, the Center for Medical Progress released numerous video 
recordings that incontrovertibly documented corporateofficers and 
employees of Planned Parenthood casually discussing the harvesting and 
sale of the little body parts of countlesslittle babies among the 
hundreds of thousands of innocent babies they are killing in many of 
the hundreds of existing abortionclinics owned by Planned ParenthoOd 
across this nation. It was a revelation so ugly and evil that it still 
casts an indeliblestain of shame on all of us as Americans. Yet, Barack 
Obama arrogantly and heartlessly did all that was necessary to 
forceAmerican taxpayers to continue to fund this organization of human 
butchery called Planned Parenthood.
  In the U.S. Senate, Mr. Obama voted no on a bill that would have 
prohibited someone from taking a minor child out of statefor an 
abortion without at least notifying the child's parents. He voted no on 
a bill that would have allowed unborn babies inlow income households to 
be included for health insurance coverage.
  As President he appointed an Empire of radically pro-abortion judges 
and government bureaucrats. He vowed to veto ThePrenatal 
Nondiscrimination Act which would prohibit discriminating against an 
unborn baby girl by subjecting her to abortionsimply because she is a 
little girl instead of a little boy.
  He promised to veto the Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act 
after its historic passage in the United States House 
ofRepresentatives. This is a bill that would protect both mothers and 
their little pain capable unborn babies between thebeginning of their 
sixth month of pregnancy and live birth from the unspeakable cruelty of 
Planned Parenthood and evil monsterslike Kermit Gosnell.
  The House of Representatives later passed The Born Alive Abortion 
Survivors Protection Act. This was a humane and reasonablebill that in 
the name of humanity would simply protect those babies who had survived 
the process of abortion and were bornalive. born alive, Mr. Speaker. 
Yet astonishingly, Barack Obama, the President of the United States and 
the leader of the freeworld wrote a letter to Congress and said he 
would veto this bill to protect these born alive babies if it ever 
reached hisdesk. I can only say Mr. Speaker, that there is a moment in 
the life of every policymaker when he or she makes a decision eitherto 
protect the innocent or to embrace the Cimmerian darkness where the 
light of human compassion has gone out and the survivalof the fittest 
has prevailed over humanity. President Barack Obama failed that moment.
  President Barack Obama's record is crystal clear. For his entire his 
political life, Mr. Obama has strongly supported thefull legalization 
of abortion on demand throughout all nine months of pregnancy for any 
reason or no reason whatsoever includingsex selection throughout all 
nine months of pregnancy and he supported forcing American taxpayers to 
pay for it whether thetaxpayers liked it or not. Under President Barack 
Obama, nearly 9 million innocent, defenseless little American babies 
wereaborted before they saw the first smile of their mother.
  So ironically, Mr. Speaker, President Obama once spoke very noble and 
poignant words that, whether he realized it or not,apply so profoundly 
to this subject. Mr. Speaker, let me quote excerpted portions of his 
comments:
  Mr. Obama once said, ``This is our first task--caring for our 
children. It's our first job. If we don't get that right, wedon't get 
anything right. That's how, as a society, we will be judged.''
  He asked, ``Are we really prepared to say that we're powerless in the 
face of such carnage, that the politics are too hard?Are we prepared to 
say that such violence visited on our children year after year after 
year is somehow the price of ourfreedom?''
  He also said ``Our journey is not complete until all our children . . 
.'' are ``cared for and cherished and always safe fromharm.''
  ``That is our generation's task'' he said, ``to make these words, 
these rights, these values of life and liberty and thepursuit of 
happiness real for every American.''
  Mr. Speaker, never have I so deeply agreed with any words ever spoken 
by President Obama as those I have just quoted. How Iwish he could 
somehow open his heart and his ears to his own words, and ask himself 
in the core of his own soul, why these wordsthat should apply to ALL 
children, cannot include the most helpless and vulnerable of all 
children?
  Are there any children more vulnerable than little pain capable 
babies are before they are even born? Could we not at leastagree we 
should all come together protect them when they are between the 
beginning of the sixth month of pregnancy and birthwhen we know that 
the thousands upon thousands of babies Planned Parenthood kills at this 
age feel agonizing pain in the processof being murdered? Could we not 
agree that little human babies who survive abortion and are born alive 
should be protected?Could the President not have agreed to that much, 
Mr. Speaker?
  Ironically, Barack Obama was in the unique position, perhaps among 
all other presidents in history, to bring this countrytogether to 
protect these helpless little babies. Yet as the most powerful human 
being in the world, Mr. Obama chose to becomethe most powerful enemy of 
the most helpless human beings in the world. Nothing will stain his 
legacy or his claims of lookingout for the little guy with more shame 
than going down in history as the ``Abortion President''.
  Mr. Speaker, I know Mr. Obama will hold to the standard line and 
cloak it all in the name of freedom of choice as he is donethroughout 
his political life, but I wish he could just ask himself, what is so 
liberating about dismembering living, helplesslittle human babies?
  Mr. Speaker, I once prayed and hoped that Barack Obama would take a 
different road than he did when it came to protectinginnocent humanity. 
Just before he first took office eight years ago, I wrote the President 
of the United States an open letteron this very issue of protecting the 
innocent unborn child that was published in Human Events Magazine the 
very day he raisedhis hand to take the oath of office, swearing before 
God that he would preserve and protect the Constitution of the 
UnitedStates. Several days later in the White House I personally handed 
Mr. Obama that original letter which he promised to read.
  In that letter I wished him well, hoping that he would use his unique 
and historic opportunity to bring together Americansin their common 
humanity to a moment of renewed commitment to recognize and protect 
every member of the human family includingthe innocent unborn child.
  The letter is as follows:
  Dear President Barack Obama,
  History and the human family find themselves at a crossroads as you 
take the oath of office to become the 44th President ofthe United 
States. I am told you are the first to request to be sworn in with your 
hand on the same Bible used by AbrahamLincoln when he took the same 
oath.
  In the days, years, and generations to come, many voices will speak 
to the profound symbolism of this gesture on your part.History will 
also record whether or not you honored those noble principles held in 
the heart of Abraham Lincoln; that all ofGod's children have the right 
to live, and be free, and to pursue their dreams.
  This is one Republican with the sincerest prayer that history will 
confirm that you did.
  May I submit that the surest hope of such a confirmation is for you 
and the Nation to remember why we built that grand whitegranite 
memorial along the Potomac to Mr. Lincoln, and why we revere him so 
deeply.
  We honor Abraham Lincoln most because he found within himself the 
humanity and courage to transcend the politics andconvention of his 
day, to recognize the child of God in a slave, which both the tide of 
public opinion and the Dred ScottSupreme Court decision had declared to 
be a nonperson, and unprotectable by law.
  History found Abraham Lincoln a faithful steward of the hope, human 
dignity, and deliverance of those who bore the image ofGod in the shame 
of slavery; and now it waits to witness President Barack Obama's 
stewardship of the hope, human dignity, anddeliverance of those who 
bear the image of God in unborn silence.
  Yes, it is true, Mr. President, that no issue since slavery has 
divided Democrats and Republicans so deeply as abortion.Yet, the two 
issues are so profoundly similar. In both cases, the innocent victims 
were arbitrarily dehumanized in the name offreedom. And yes, it will be 
easy for you to listen to the voices of those who still today, in the 
name of freedom, woulddeprive the innocent of both life and liberty. 
Certainly, their familiar phrases prevailed for a time in the days of 
slavery.
  However, is it possible that in hindsight, and with the weight of 
history on your shoulders, that you might find the courageto reject 
this insidious deception that has crushed so many

[[Page H389]]

lives across history, and that relentlessly pursues thisnation still?
  Mr. Lincoln did. He said, ``Those who deny freedom to others deserve 
it not themselves, and under a just God, cannot longretain it.'' That 
is why we love him, and built our memorial to him.
  So, as you lay your hand upon his Bible, Mr. President, may I adjure 
you to listen, in the stillness of your own heart, tothe faint cries 
for mercy from those little souls who now look to you for hope; and to 
the words printed in red on the pagesbeneath your hand which will be 
declared again in eternity's final day;
  ``Inasmuch as you have done it unto one of the least of these my 
brethren, you have done it unto me.''
  Mr. Speaker, I truly and sincerely wished God's best for Barack Obama 
when he took office, just as I do now. And it gives meno pleasure to 
lay out what I believe to be the profound failures of Mr. Obama's 
presidency. However, in a Republic like ourswhere the people are the 
final arbiters of our public policy, and where those who would subvert 
this Republic consistentlyresort to deception and historical 
revisionism, an accurate record is vital to our nation's survival and 
its future generations.
  So, alas Mr. Speaker, I am afraid President Obama tragically wasted 
his precious and historic opportunity. However, this isthe true record 
of President Barack Obama, and to paraphrase William Wilberforce, ``We 
may choose to look the other way but wecan never say again that we did 
not know.''
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are reminded to refrain from 
engaging in personalities toward the President.

                          ____________________



