

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 52 (Friday, March 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 52 (Friday, March 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2444]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. BROOKS of Alabama:
       H.R. 1718. A bill to repeal the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education 
     Reconciliation Act of 2010; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on Ways and 
     Means, Education and the Workforce, Natural Resources, the 
     Judiciary, House Administration, Rules, and Appropriations, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DeSAULNIER (for himself, Mr. King of New York, 
             Mr. Polis, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Langevin, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Ms. Matsui, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Huffman, 
             Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Schiff, Mr. Cartwright, Ms. Speier, and Mr. 
             Garamendi):
       H.R. 1719. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the 
     Interior to acquire approximately 44 acres of land in 
     Martinez, California, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KING of New York (for himself and Mr. Pascrell):
       H.R. 1720. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to modify the rules applicable to length of service 
     award plans; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. ROUZER:
       H.R. 1721. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to designate at least one city in the United States 
     each year as an ``American World War II City'', and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Duncan 
             of South Carolina, Mr. Gosar, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. 
             Stewart, Mr. Harper, Mr. Calvert, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. 
             Fleischmann, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Graves of 
             Georgia, Mr. Babin, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Loudermilk, 
             Mr. Flores, Mr. Yoho, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Huizenga, 
             Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Carter 
             of Georgia, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Olson, and Mr. Allen):
       H.R. 1722. A bill to amend the National Labor Relations Act 
     to modify the authority of the National Labor Relations Board 
     with respect to rulemaking, issuance of complaints, and 
     authority over unfair labor practices; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. TAKANO (for himself and Mr. Conyers):
       H.R. 1723. A bill to amend the Federal Election Campaign 
     Act of 1971 to provide for a limitation on the time for the 
     use of contributions or donations, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. TAKANO (for himself, Mr. Ellison, Mr. McGovern, 
             Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Moore, Ms. Norton, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Grijalva, and Mr. Nadler):
       H.R. 1724. A bill to amend title V of the Omnibus Crime 
     Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to prohibit Edward Byrne 
     Memorial Justice Assistance Grants from being made available 
     to a State or unit of local government that has a contract 
     with a person that charges a fee to pay-only probationers, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. WALZ (for himself, Mr. Denham, Mr. Langevin, Ms. 
             McSally, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania, and Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire):
       H.R. 1725. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the treatment of medical evidence provided by non-
     Department of Veterans Affairs medical professionals in 
     support of claims for disability compensation under the laws 
     administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.

                          ____________________



