

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 37 (Thursday, March 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 37 (Thursday, March 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1576-S1578]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Mrs. Fischer, and Mr. 
             Burr):
       S. 489. A bill to amend the Employee Retirement Income 
     Security Act of 1974 and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     with respect to participant votes on the suspension of 
     benefits under multiemployer plans in critical and declining 
     status; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr. Tester, and Mr. Risch):
       S. 490. A bill to reinstate and extend the deadline for 
     commencement of construction

[[Page S1577]]

     of a hydroelectric project involving the Gibson Dam; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr. Tester, Mr. Risch, and 
             Mr. Crapo):
       S. 491. A bill to reinstate and extend the deadline for 
     commencement of construction of a hydroelectric project 
     involving Clark Canyon Dam; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr. Casey):
       S. 492. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow members of the Ready Reserve of a reserve component 
     of the Armed Forces to make elective deferrals on the basis 
     of their service to the Ready Reserve and on the basis of 
     their other employment; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. RUBIO:
       S. 493. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for the removal or demotion of employees of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs based on performance or 
     misconduct, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY:
       S. 494. A bill to improve transparency regarding the 
     activities of the American Red Cross; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. SANDERS:
       S. 495. A bill to provide incentives for investment in 
     research and development for new medicines, to enhance access 
     to new medicines, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Young, 
             and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 496. A bill to repeal the rule issued by the Federal 
     Highway Administration and the Federal Transit Administration 
     entitled ``Metropolitan Planning Organization Coordination 
     and Planning Area Reform''; to the Committee on Banking, 
     Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself, Mr. Grassley, Mr. Brown, 
             Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Coons, Mr. Franken, Mr. Tillis, 
             Mr. Merkley, Mrs. Ernst, Mr. Blunt, and Ms. 
             Klobuchar):
       S. 497. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for Medicare coverage of certain lymphedema 
     compression treatment items as items of durable medical 
     equipment; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr. Peters):
       S. 498. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     require the Secretary of Defense to use only human-based 
     methods for training members of the Armed Forces in the 
     treatment of severe combat injuries, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. THUNE:
       S. 499. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     address needs in the agriculture sector by establishing a 
     voluntary, short-term conserving use program for 
     participating farmers, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. ROBERTS (for himself and Mrs. McCaskill):
       S. 500. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to make the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security for 
     Health Affairs responsible for coordinating the efforts of 
     the Department of Homeland Security related to food, 
     agriculture, and veterinary defense against terrorism, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself and Mr. Daines):
       S. 501. A bill to amend the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act to 
     designate certain segments of East Rosebud Creek in Carbon 
     County, Montana, as components of the Wild and Scenic Rivers 
     System; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. FRANKEN (for himself and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 502. A bill to modify the boundary of Voyageurs National 
     Park in the State of Minnesota, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Booker, 
             Ms. Cantwell, Mr. Blumenthal, and Mr. Peters):
       S. 503. A bill to require the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     make publicly available certain regulatory records relating 
     to the administration of the Animal Welfare Act and the Horse 
     Protection Act, to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
     provide for the use of an alternative depreciation system for 
     taxpayers violating rules under the Animal Welfare Act and 
     the Horse Protection Act, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. HIRONO (for herself and Mr. Daines):
       S. 504. A bill to permanently authorize the Asia-Pacific 
     Economic Cooperation Business Travel Card Program; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Mr. Bennet, and Mr. 
             Young):
       S. 505. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide for an energy equivalent of a gallon of diesel in 
     the case of liquefied natural gas for purposes of the Inland 
     Waterways Trust Fund financing rate; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. THUNE:
       S. 506. A bill to require that the Federal Government 
     procure from the private sector the goods and services 
     necessary for the operations and management of certain 
     Government agencies, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. TESTER:
       S. 507. A bill to sustain economic development and 
     recreational use of National Forest System land in the State 
     of Montana, to add certain land to the National Wilderness 
     Preservation System, to designate new areas for recreation, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr. Merkley):
       S. 508. A bill to provide for the conveyance of certain 
     Federal land in the State of Oregon, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr. Enzi, Ms. Murkowski, 
             and Mr. Risch):
       S. 509. A bill to improve the control and management of 
     invasive species that threaten and harm Federal land under 
     the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture and the 
     Secretary of the Interior, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. 
             Markey, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Brown, Mr. Whitehouse, Ms. 
             Hirono, Mr. Coons, Ms. Warren, Mr. Schatz, Mrs. 
             Feinstein, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Van 
             Hollen, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Bennet, Mr. 
             Tester, Mr. Durbin, Ms. Hassan, Mrs. McCaskill, Ms. 
             Klobuchar, Mr. Franken, Ms. Duckworth, Mrs. Shaheen, 
             Mrs. Murray, Mr. Booker, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Murphy, Mr. 
             Peters, Mr. Udall, Ms. Harris, Mr. Heinrich, Ms. 
             Cantwell, Mr. Schumer, Ms. Cortez Masto, Mr. King, 
             Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Leahy, and Mr. 
             Warner):
       S. 510. A bill to protect a woman's right and ability to 
     determine whether and when to bear a child or end a pregnancy 
     by limiting restrictions on the provision of abortion 
     services; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MANCHIN:
       S. 511. A bill to provide for the sealing of records 
     relating to Federal nonviolent criminal offenses related to 
     substance use disorders, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. 
             Inhofe, Mr. Booker, Mr. Crapo, Mrs. Fischer, Mrs. 
             Capito, and Mr. Manchin):
       S. 512. A bill to modernize the regulation of nuclear 
     energy; to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr. Merkley):
       S. 513. A bill to designate the Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild 
     Steelhead Special Management Area in the State of Oregon; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. PERDUE (for himself and Mr. Peters):
       S. 514. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     to carry out a pilot program to provide access to magnetic 
     EEG/EKG-guided resonance therapy to veterans; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. Brown, and Mrs. 
             McCaskill):
       S. 515. A bill to require the Secretary of Labor to 
     maintain a publicly available list of all employers that 
     relocate a call center overseas, to make such companies 
     ineligible for Federal grants or guaranteed loans, and to 
     require disclosure of the physical location of business 
     agents engaging in customer service communications, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mr. WARNER (for himself and Mr. Gardner):
       S. 516. A bill to provide grants to assist States in 
     developing and implementing plans to address cybersecurity 
     threats or vulnerabilities, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mrs. FISCHER (for herself, Mr. Donnelly, Mr. 
             Grassley, Mr. Blunt, Mrs. McCaskill, Mrs. Ernst, Ms. 
             Heitkamp, Mr. Hoeven, Mr. Sasse, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. 
             Thune, Mr. Roberts, Ms. Klobuchar, and Mr. Durbin):
       S. 517. A bill to amend the Clean Air Act with respect to 
     the ethanol waiver for Reid vapor pressure limitations under 
     such Act; to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. WICKER (for himself, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Boozman, 
             Mr. Barrasso, Mr. Crapo, Mr. Franken, Ms. Hirono, Ms. 
             Klobuchar, Mr. Manchin, Mr. Risch, Mr. Schatz, and 
             Mr. Tester):
       S. 518. A bill to amend the Federal Water Pollution Control 
     Act to provide for technical assistance for small treatment 
     works; to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and Mr. Schumer):
       S. 519. A bill to amend the Safe Water Drinking Act to 
     require the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
     Agency to establish maximum contaminant levels for

[[Page S1578]]

     certain contaminants, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. CASSIDY:
       S. 520. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to reform payment to States under the Medicaid program; 
     to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr. Risch, Mrs. Murray, and 
             Mrs. McCaskill):
       S. 521. A bill to make the National Parks and Federal 
     Recreational Lands Pass available at a discount to veterans; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. TESTER:
       S. 522. A bill to establish a 5-year ban on individuals 
     appointed to Executive Schedule positions and Members of 
     Congress engaging in lobbying activities at the Federal 
     level; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, Ms. 
             Heitkamp, Mr. Nelson, Mr. King, Mr. Murphy, Ms. 
             Baldwin, Ms. Warren, Ms. Hassan, and Mrs. Shaheen):
       S. 523. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to establish a stewardship fee on the production and 
     importation of opioid pain relievers, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Cochran, 
             Mr. Cotton, Mr. Isakson, and Mr. Wicker):
       S. 524. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to make permanent certain provisions of the Heartland, 
     Habitat, Harvest, and Horticulture Act of 2008 relating to 
     timber; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and Mr. Schumer):
       S. 525. A bill to require the United States Postal Service 
     to designate a single, unique ZIP code for particular 
     communities; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mrs. FISCHER (for herself, Mr. Coons, Mr. Scott, and 
             Mrs. Gillibrand):
       S. 526. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to provide 
     for expanded participation in the microloan program, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Small Business and 
     Entrepreneurship.
           By Mr. BLUNT:
       S. 527. A bill to improve access to emergency medical 
     services, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. SASSE (for himself, Mr. Alexander, Mr. Cassidy, 
             Mr. Grassley, Mr. Heller, Mr. Lee, Mr. McConnell, Mr. 
             Perdue, Mr. Roberts, and Mr. Inhofe):
       S.J. Res. 26. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by the Department of 
     Education relating to teacher preparation issues; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Isakson, 
             and Mr. Daines):
       S.J. Res. 27. A joint resolution disapproving the rule 
     submitted by the Department of Labor relating to 
     ``Clarification of Employer's Continuing Obligation to Make 
     and Maintain an Accurate Record of Each Recordable Injury and 
     Illness''; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. INHOFE (for himself, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Barrasso, 
             Mr. Johnson, Mr. Moran, and Mrs. Fischer):
       S.J. Res. 28. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by the Administrator of 
     the Environmental Protection Agency relating to accidental 
     release prevention requirements of risk management programs 
     under the Clean Air Act; to the Committee on Environment and 
     Public Works.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Kennedy, and 
             Mr. Barrasso):
       S.J. Res. 29. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the final rule of the Office of Natural 
     Resources Revenue of the Department of the Interior relating 
     to consolidated Federal oil and gas and Federal and Indian 
     coal valuation reform; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. PERDUE (for himself, Mr. Boozman, and Mr. 
             Leahy):
       S.J. Res. 30. A joint resolution providing for the 
     reappointment of Steve Case as a citizen regent of the Board 
     of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution; to the Committee 
     on Rules and Administration.
           By Mr. YOUNG:
       S.J. Res. 31. A joint resolution to authorize the use of 
     United States Armed Forces against al-Qaeda, the Taliban, the 
     Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, successor organizations, and 
     associated forces; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.

                          ____________________



