

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 18 (Thursday, February 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 18 (Thursday, February 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S656-S657]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 54

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper) was added as a cosponsor of S. 54, a bill to prohibit the 
creation of an immigration-related registry program that classifies 
people on the basis of religion, race, age, gender, ethnicity, national 
origin, nationality, or citizenship.


                                 S. 56

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the names of the Senator from 
Kentucky (Mr. Paul), the Senator from Kentucky (Mr. McConnell), the 
Senator from Utah (Mr. Hatch), the Senator from Texas (Mr. Cornyn), the 
Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy), the Senator from Missouri (Mr. 
Blunt), the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Isakson), the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Mr. Johnson), the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds), 
the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Young), the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. 
Inhofe), the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines), the Senator from 
Wyoming (Mr. Barrasso), the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Perdue), the 
Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) and the Senator from North Carolina 
(Mr. Burr) were added as cosponsors of S. 56, a bill to require each 
agency to repeal or amend 2 or more rules before issuing or amending a 
rule.


                                 S. 58

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the names of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. Flake) and the Senator from Nevada (Ms. Cortez Masto) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 58, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to repeal the excise tax on high cost employer-sponsored health 
coverage.


                                 S. 59

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 59, a bill to provide that 
silencers be treated the same as long guns.


                                 S. 94

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) and the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Gardner) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 94, a bill to impose sanctions in 
response to cyber intrusions by the Government of the Russian 
Federation and other aggressive activities of the Russian Federation, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 109

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 109, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for coverage under 
the Medicare program of pharmacist services.


                                 S. 182

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 182, a bill to 
provide for the inclusion of court-appointed guardianship improvement 
and oversight activities under the Elder Justice Act of 2009.


                                 S. 208

  At the request of Mr. King, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 208, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to make the Child and Dependent Care Tax 
Credit fully refundable, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 212

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 212, a bill to 
provide for the development of a United States strategy for greater 
human space exploration, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 224

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 224, a bill to amend title 
18, United States Code, to prohibit taking minors across State lines in 
circumvention of laws requiring the involvement of parents in abortion 
decisions.


                                 S. 241

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) and the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Perdue) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 241, a bill to prohibit Federal funding of Planned 
Parenthood Federation of America.


                                 S. 244

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the names of the Senator from South Dakota 
(Mr. Thune) and the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Risch) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 244, a bill to repeal the wage requirement of the 
Davis-Bacon Act.


                                 S. 251

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Hawaii (Mr. 
Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 251, a bill to repeal the 
Independent Payment Advisory Board in order to ensure that it cannot be 
used to undermine the Medicare entitlement for beneficiaries.


                                 S. 255

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 255, a bill to increase the 
rates of pay under the General Schedule and other statutory pay systems 
and for prevailing rate employees by 3.2 percent, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 264

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 264, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow charitable organizations to make 
statements relating to political campaigns if such statements are made 
in ordinary course of carrying out its tax exempt purpose.


                                 S. 272

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) and the Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 272, a bill to enhance the security 
operations of the Transportation Security Administration and the 
stability of the transportation security workforce by applying a 
unified personnel system under title 5, United States Code, to 
employees of the Transportation Security Administration who are 
responsible for screening passengers and property, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 274

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the names of the Senator from 
Montana (Mr. Tester), the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Donnelly), the 
Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson) and the Senator from North Dakota 
(Ms. Heitkamp) were added as cosponsors of S. 274, a bill to nullify 
the effect of the recent executive order that temporarily restricted 
individuals from certain countries from entering the United States.


                              S.J. RES. 1

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 1, a joint 
resolution approving the location of a memorial to commemorate and 
honor the members of the Armed Forces who served on active duty in 
support of Operation Desert Storm or Operation Desert Shield.


                              S.J. RES. 5

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) were 
added as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 5, a joint resolution removing the 
deadline for the

[[Page S657]]

ratification of the equal rights amendment.


                              S.J. RES. 9

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 9, a joint 
resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8, of 
title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Securities 
and Exchange Commission relating to the disclosure of payments by 
resource extraction issuers.


                              S.J. RES. 11

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 11, a joint 
resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of 
title 5, United States Code, of the final rule of the Bureau of Land 
Management relating to ``Waste Prevention, Production Subject to 
Royalties, and Resource Conservation''.


                              S.J. RES. 13

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) and the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Perdue) were added as 
cosponsors of S.J. Res. 13, a joint resolution providing for 
congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States 
Code, of the final rule submitted by the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services relating to compliance with title X requirements by project 
recipients in selecting subrecipients.


                              S.J. RES. 14

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue), the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines) and the Senator 
from Kansas (Mr. Moran) were added as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 14, a 
joint resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 
8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Social 
Security Administration relating to Implementation of the NICS 
Improvement Amendments Act of 2007.


                              S.J. RES. 15

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 15, a joint 
resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of 
title 5, United States Code, of the final rule submitted by the 
Director of the Bureau of Land Management relating to resource 
management planning.


                              S.J. RES. 16

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Hawaii (Mr. 
Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 16, a joint resolution 
approving the discontinuation of the process for consideration and 
automatic implementation of the annual proposal of the Independent 
Medicare Advisory Board under section 1899A of the Social Security Act.


                              S.J. RES. 19

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 19, a joint resolution 
providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, 
United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Bureau of Consumer 
Financial Protection relating to prepaid accounts under the Electronic 
Fund Transfer Act and the Truth in Lending Act.


                             S. CON. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the names of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) and the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Gardner) were 
added as cosponsors of S. Con. Res. 6, a concurrent resolution 
supporting the Local Radio Freedom Act.

                          ____________________



