

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2424-S2425]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and Ms. Collins):
       S. 862. A bill to establish and strengthen projects that 
     defray the cost of related instruction associated with pre-
     apprenticeship and apprenticeship programs, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. WHITEHOUSE:
       S. 863. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide for the taxation of income of controlled foreign 
     corporations attributable to imported property; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Mr. Wicker):
       S. 864. A bill to promote development goals and the 
     strengthening of the private sector in Bosnia and 
     Herzegovina; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. Whitehouse, Ms. Hirono, 
             Mr. Franken, Mr. Schumer, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Reed, Mr. 
             Merkley, Mr. Durbin, Mrs. Feinstein, and Mr. Van 
             Hollen):
       S. 865. A bill to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to 
     repeal a certain exemption for hydraulic fracturing, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Environment and Public 
     Works.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Mr. Paul):
       S. 866. A bill to amend the Juvenile Justice and 
     Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 to eliminate the use of 
     valid court orders to secure lockup of status offenders, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DONNELLY (for himself, Mr. Young, Mrs. 
             Feinstein, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Blunt, and Mr. Coons):
       S. 867. A bill to provide support for law enforcement 
     agency efforts to protect the mental health and wellbeing of 
     law enforcement officers, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself and Mr. Murphy):
       S. 868. A bill to amend the Employee Retirement Income 
     Security Act of 1974 to require a lifetime income disclosure; 
     to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. PAUL (for himself and Mr. Wicker):
       S. 869. A bill to repeal the violation of sovereign 
     nations' laws and privacy matters; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Isakson, Mr. 
             Warner, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Thune, Mr. Casey, 
             Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Crapo, Mr. Grassley, Mr. Carper, Ms. 
             Stabenow, and Mrs. McCaskill):
       S. 870. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to implement Medicare payment policies designed to 
     improve management of chronic disease, streamline care 
     coordination, and improve quality outcomes without adding to 
     the deficit; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. HELLER:
       S. 871. A bill to appropriate such funds as may be 
     necessary to ensure that members of the Armed Forces, 
     including reserve components thereof, and supporting civilian 
     and contractor personnel continue to receive pay and 
     allowances for active service performed when a funding gap 
     caused by the failure to enact interim or full-year 
     appropriations for the Armed Forces occurs, which results in 
     the furlough of non-emergency personnel and the curtailment 
     of Government activities and services; to the Committee on 
     Appropriations.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr. Schumer, Ms. 
             Stabenow, Mrs. Capito, Mrs. McCaskill, Ms. Baldwin, 
             Mr. Leahy, Mr. Bennet, Mr. McCain, and Mr. Gardner):
       S. 872. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to make permanent the extension of the Medicare-dependent 
     hospital (MDH) program and the increased payments under the 
     Medicare low-volume hospital program; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr. Carper):
       S. 873. A bill to amend section 8433 of title 5, United 
     States Code, to provide for flexibility in making withdrawals 
     from the Thrift Savings Fund; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. MURPHY (for himself and Mr. Booker):
       S. 874. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to protect the enrollment of incarcerated youth for 
     medical assistance under the Medicaid program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN:
       S. 875. A bill to require the Comptroller General of the 
     United States to conduct a study and submit a report on 
     filing requirements under the Universal Service Fund 
     programs; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Ms. HEITKAMP (for herself, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Heller, 
             Mr. Schatz, Mr. Hoeven, Ms. Klobuchar, and Mr. 
             Udall):
       S. 876. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to recognize Indian tribal governments for purposes of 
     determining under the adoption credit whether a child has 
     special needs; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Mr. Hatch):

[[Page S2425]]

  

       S. 877. A bill to amend the Family Educational Rights and 
     Privacy Act of 1974 to ensure that student data handled by 
     private companies is protected, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. Warren, 
             Mr. Sanders, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Udall, 
             Mr. Leahy, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Van Hollen, and Mr. 
             Franken):
       S. 878. A bill to establish privacy protections for 
     customers of broadband Internet access service and other 
     telecommunications services; to the Committee on Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr. Flake, Mr. McCain, 
             and Mr. Enzi):
       S. 879. A bill to expedite and prioritize forest management 
     activities to achieve ecosystem restoration objectives, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Sanders, 
             Mr. Franken, Ms. Warren, Mr. Whitehouse, Ms. 
             Stabenow, and Mrs. McCaskill):
       S. 880. A bill to ensure the use of American iron and steel 
     in public water systems, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr. McCain, Ms. Cantwell, 
             and Mr. King):
       S. 881. A bill to reduce risks to the financial system by 
     limiting banks' ability to engage in certain risky activities 
     and limiting conflicts of interest, to reinstate certain 
     Glass-Steagall Act protections that were repealed by the 
     Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. ROUNDS (for himself, Mr. Manchin, Ms. Warren, 
             and Mr. Kaine):
       S. 882. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for the entitlement to educational assistance under 
     the Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Program of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs for members of the Armed 
     Forces awarded the Purple Heart, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 883. A bill to provide for reforms of the administration 
     of the outer Continental Shelf of the United States, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI:
       S. 884. A bill to amend the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation 
     Act of 1993 to require the Bureau of Land Management to 
     provide a claimant of a small miner waiver from claim 
     maintenance fees with a period of 60 days after written 
     receipt of 1 or more defects is provided to the claimant by 
     registered mail to cure the 1 or more defects or pay the 
     claim maintenance fee, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Mr. Cardin):
       S. 885. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to include foster care transition youth as members of 
     targeted groups for purposes of the work opportunity credit; 
     to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mrs. McCaskill):
       S. 886. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to establish an Acquisition Review Board in the Department of 
     Homeland Security, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mrs. McCaskill):
       S. 887. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to require a multiyear acquisition strategy for the 
     Department of Homeland Security, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Mr. Paul, Mr. Durbin, and 
             Mr. Franken):
       S.J. Res. 40. A joint resolution to provide limitations on 
     the transfer of air-to-ground munitions from the United 
     States to Saudi Arabia; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations.

                          ____________________



