

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 14 (Friday, January 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 14 (Friday, January 27, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H692-H697]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     PUBLICATION OF COMMITTEE RULES


    RULES OF THE COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS FOR THE 115TH CONGRESS

  Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker, as required by clause 2(a) of 
House rule XI, I respectfully submit for the Congressional Record the 
rules of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which were adopted at a 
public meeting of the Committee on January 24, 2017.


                         1. General Provisions

       (a) The Rules of the House of Representatives, and in 
     particular, the committee rules enumerated in clause 2 of 
     rule XI, are the rules of the Committee on Foreign Affairs 
     (hereafter referred to as the ``Committee''), to the extent 
     applicable.
       (b) A motion to recess and a motion to dispense with the 
     first reading (in full) of a bill or resolution, if printed 
     copies are available, are privileged non-debatable motions in 
     Committee.
       (c) The Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs shall 
     consult the Ranking Minority Member to the extent possible 
     with respect to the business of the Committee. Each 
     subcommittee of the Committee is a part of the Committee and 
     is subject to the authority and direction of the Committee 
     and to its rules, to the extent applicable.


                           2. Date of Meeting

       The regular meeting date of the Committee shall be the 
     first Tuesday of every month when the House of 
     Representatives is in session pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule 
     XI of the House of Representatives. Additional meetings may 
     be called by the Chairman as the Chairman may deem necessary 
     or at the request of a majority of the Members of the 
     Committee in accordance with clause 2(c) of rule XI of the 
     House of Representatives. The determination of the business 
     to be considered at each meeting shall be made by the 
     Chairman subject to clause 2(c) of rule XI of the House of 
     Representatives. A regularly scheduled meeting need not be 
     held if, in the judgment of the Chairman, there is no 
     business to be considered.


                               3. Quorum

       For purposes of taking testimony and receiving evidence, 
     two Members shall constitute a quorum, and the Chairman of 
     the full Committee or a subcommittee shall make every effort 
     to ensure that the relevant Ranking Minority Member or 
     another Minority Member is present at the time a hearing is 
     convened. One-third of the Members of the Committee or 
     subcommittee shall constitute a quorum for taking any action, 
     except: (1) reporting a measure or recommendation; (2) 
     closing Committee meetings and hearings to the public; (3) 
     authorizing the issuance of subpoenas; and (4) any other 
     action for which an actual majority quorum is required by any 
     rule of the House of Representatives or by law. No measure or 
     recommendation shall be reported to the House of 
     Representatives unless a majority of the Committee is 
     actually present. No measure or recommendation shall be 
     reported to the full Committee by a subcommittee unless half 
     of the subcommittee is actually present. A record vote may be 
     demanded by one-fifth of the Members present or, in the 
     apparent absence of a quorum, by any one Member.


              4. Meetings and Hearings Open to the Public

       (a) Meetings
       (1) Each meeting for the transaction of business, including 
     the markup of legislation, of the Committee or a subcommittee 
     shall be open to the public except when the Committee or 
     subcommittee, in open session and with a majority present, 
     determines by record vote that all or part of the remainder 
     of the meeting on that day shall be closed to the public, 
     because disclosure of matters to be considered would endanger 
     national security, would compromise sensitive law enforcement 
     information, or would tend to defame, degrade or incriminate 
     any person or otherwise violate any labor rule of the House 
     of Representatives. No person other than Members of the 
     Committee and such congressional staff and departmental 
     representatives as the Committee or subcommittee may 
     authorize shall be present at any business or markup session 
     which has been closed to the public. This subsection does not 
     apply to open Committee hearings which are provided for by 
     subsection (b) of this rule.
       (2) The Chairman of the full Committee or a subcommittee 
     may postpone further proceedings when a record vote is 
     ordered on the question of approving any measure or matter, 
     or adopting an amendment. The relevant Chairman may resume 
     proceedings on a postponed request at any time. When 
     exercising postponement authority, the relevant Chairman 
     shall take all reasonable steps necessary to notify Members 
     on the resumption of proceedings on any postponed record 
     vote. When proceedings resume on a postponed question, 
     notwithstanding any intervening order for the previous 
     question, an underlying proposition shall remain subject to 
     further debate or amendment to the same extent as when the 
     question was postponed.
       (b) Hearings
       (1) Each hearing conducted by the Committee or a 
     subcommittee shall be open to the public except when the 
     Committee or subcommittee, in open session and with a 
     majority present, determines by record vote that all or part 
     of the remainder of that hearing on that day should be closed 
     to the public because disclosure of testimony, evidence or 
     other matters to be considered would endanger the national 
     security, would compromise sensitive law enforcement 
     information, or otherwise would violate any law or rule of 
     the House of Representatives. Notwithstanding the preceding 
     sentence, a majority of those present, there being in 
     attendance the requisite number required under the rules of 
     the Committee to be present for the purpose of taking 
     testimony--
       (A) may vote to close the hearing for the sole purpose of 
     discussing whether testimony or evidence to be received would 
     endanger the national security, would compromise sensitive 
     law enforcement information, or violate paragraph (2) of this 
     subsection; or
       (B) may vote to close the hearing, as provided in paragraph 
     (2) of this subsection.
       (2) Whenever it is asserted by a Member of the Committee 
     that the evidence or testimony at a hearing may tend to 
     defame, degrade, or incriminate any person, or it is asserted 
     by a witness that the evidence or testimony that the witness 
     would give at a hearing may tend to defame, degrade, or 
     incriminate the witness--
       (A) such testimony or evidence shall be presented in 
     executive session, notwithstanding the provisions of 
     paragraph (1) of this subsection, if by a majority of those 
     present, there being in attendance the requisite number 
     required under the rules of the Committee to be present for 
     the purpose of taking testimony, the Committee or 
     subcommittee determines that such evidence or testimony may 
     tend to defame, degrade, or incriminate any person; and
       (B) the Committee or subcommittee shall proceed to receive 
     such testimony in open session only if the Committee, a 
     majority being present, determines that such evidence or 
     testimony will not tend to defame, degrade, or incriminate 
     any person.
       (3) No Member of the House of Representatives may be 
     excluded from non-participatory attendance at any hearing of 
     the Committee or a subcommittee unless the House of 
     Representatives has by majority vote authorized the Committee 
     or subcommittee, for purposes of a particular series of 
     hearings, on a particular article of legislation or on a 
     particular subject of investigation, to close its hearings to 
     Members by the same procedures designated in this subsection 
     for closing hearings to the public.
       (4) A Member of the House of Representatives who is not a 
     Member of the Committee may not be recognized to participate 
     in a Committee or Subcommittee hearing except by the 
     unanimous consent of Committee Members present at such 
     hearing. Participatory recognition of a non-Committee Member 
     shall occur only after all Committee Members seeking 
     recognition, both majority and minority, have had their 
     opportunity to participate and question any witnesses.
       (5) The Committee or a subcommittee may by the procedure 
     designated in this subsection vote to close one (1) 
     subsequent day of hearing.
       (6) No congressional staff shall be present at any meeting 
     or hearing of the Committee or a subcommittee that has been 
     closed to the public, and at which classified information 
     will be involved, unless such person is authorized access to 
     such classified information in accordance with rule XX of the 
     House of Representatives.


                   5. Convening Hearings and Markups

       (a) Hearings. Public announcement shall be made of the 
     date, place, and subject matter of any hearing to be 
     conducted by the Committee or a subcommittee at the earliest 
     possible date, and in any event at least one (1) week before 
     the commencement of that hearing. If the Chairman of the full 
     Committee or a subcommittee, with the concurrence of the 
     relevant Ranking Minority Member, determines that there is 
     good cause to begin a hearing sooner, or if the Committee or 
     subcommittee so determines by majority vote in the presence 
     of the number of members required under the rules of the 
     Committee for the taking of action, the Chairman of the full 
     Committee, if concurring, shall make the announcement at the 
     earliest possible date. No change shall be made to a publicly 
     announced hearing title

[[Page H693]]

     until after consultation with the relevant Ranking Minority 
     Member and notice to previously announced witnesses.
       (b) Markups and Other Meetings to Transact Business
       (1) Convening. The Chairman of the full Committee or a 
     subcommittee may call or convene, as the relevant Chairman 
     considers necessary, meetings of the Committee or 
     subcommittee for the consideration of a bill or resolution 
     pending before the Committee or subcommittee, as the case may 
     be, or for the conduct of other Committee or subcommittee 
     business.
       (2) Notice. Public announcement shall be made by the 
     Chairman of the full Committee of the date, place, and 
     subject matter of any markup or other meeting to conduct 
     business at the earliest possible date, and in any event at 
     least one (1) week before the commencement of such markup or 
     meeting, unless the relevant Chairman determines, in 
     consultation with the relevant Ranking Minority Member, that 
     there is good cause to begin such a markup or meeting on an 
     earlier date. If such determination is made, the Chairman of 
     the full Committee, if concurring in that determination, 
     shall make the announcement at the earliest possible date.
       (3) Agenda and Texts. The relevant Chairman shall provide 
     to all Committee or subcommittee Members an agenda for each 
     Committee and subcommittee markup or other meeting to 
     transact business, setting out all items of business to be 
     considered, including whenever possible a copy of any measure 
     scheduled for markup, at least 48 hours (excluding Saturdays, 
     Sundays, and legal holidays) before the meeting.
       Bills on subjects not listed on such agenda shall be 
     subject to a point of order unless their consideration is 
     agreed to by a two-thirds vote of the Committee or 
     subcommittee, or by the Chairman of the full Committee with 
     the concurrence of the Ranking Minority Member. The text of 
     any measure to be marked up shall be made publicly available 
     in electronic form at least 24 hours prior to the 
     commencement of the markup meeting, or at the time of an 
     announcement under subparagraph (b)(2) made within 24 hours 
     before such meeting.
       (c) Publication. Public announcement of all hearings and 
     markups shall be published in the Daily Digest portion of the 
     Congressional Record and made publicly available in 
     electronic form, Members shall be notified by the Staff 
     Director of all meetings (including markups and hearings) and 
     briefings of subcommittees and of the full Committee.
       (d) Member Seating. During Committee and subcommittee 
     hearings and markups, chairs on the dais are for Members. No 
     staff member other than a Committee or subcommittee staff 
     director, counsel, or professional staff member may occupy a 
     chair on the dais, unless authorized by the Chairman of the 
     full Committee, after consultation with the Ranking Member of 
     the Full Committee. Only one staff member each from the 
     majority and the minority may occupy chairs on the dais at 
     any time during a hearing or markup.


                              6. Witnesses

       (a) Interrogation of Witnesses
       (1) In so far as practicable, witnesses shall be permitted 
     to present their oral statements without interruption subject 
     to reasonable time constraints imposed by the Chairman of the 
     full Committee or a subcommittee, with questioning by the 
     Committee Members taking place afterward. Members should 
     refrain from questions until such statements are completed.
       (2) In recognizing Members, the relevant Chairman shall, to 
     the extent practicable, give preference to the Members on the 
     basis of their arrival at the hearing, taking into 
     consideration the majority and minority ratio of the Members 
     actually present. A Member desiring to speak or ask a 
     question shall address the relevant Chairman and not the 
     witness.
       (3) Subject to paragraph (4), each Member may interrogate 
     the witness for 5 minutes, the reply of the witness being 
     included in the 5-minute period. After all Members have had 
     an opportunity to ask questions, the round shall begin again 
     under the 5-minute rule.
       (4) Notwithstanding paragraph (3), the relevant Chairman, 
     with the concurrence of the Ranking Minority Member, may 
     permit one (1) or more majority Members of the Committee 
     designated by the relevant Chairman to question a witness for 
     a specified period of not longer than 30 minutes. On such 
     occasions, an equal number of minority Members of the 
     Committee designated by the Ranking Minority Member shall be 
     permitted to question the same witness for the same period of 
     time. Committee staff may be permitted to question a witness 
     for equal specified periods either with the concurrence of 
     the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of the full 
     Committee or by motion. However, in no case may questioning 
     by Committee staff proceed before each Member of the 
     Committee who wishes to speak under the 5-minute rule has had 
     one opportunity to do so.
       (b) Testimony of Witnesses
       (1) Advance Filing Requirement. Each witness who is to 
     appear before the Committee or a subcommittee is required to 
     file testimony with the Committee or subcommittee at least 
     two (2) business days in advance of that appearance. For 
     purposes of this subsection, testimony includes the written 
     statement of a witness, as well as any video, photographs, 
     audio-visual matter, posters, or other supporting materials 
     that the witness intends to present or display before the 
     Committee. Such testimony should be provided in electronic 
     form to the extent practicable. The Committee or subcommittee 
     shall notify Members at least two business days in advance of 
     a hearing of the availability of testimony submitted by 
     witnesses. In addition, each witness shall provide sufficient 
     copies, as determined by the Chairman of the full Committee 
     or a subcommittee, of his or her proposed written statement 
     to be provided to Members and staff of the Committee or 
     subcommittee, the news media, and the general public. The 
     text of the written statement provided pursuant to this 
     paragraph shall be considered final, and may not be revised 
     by the witness after the Committee meeting at which the 
     witness appears.
       (2) Witness Preclusion and Waiver. The requirements of 
     paragraph (1) or any part thereof may be waived by the 
     Chairman of the full Committee or a subcommittee, or the 
     presiding Member, or the Ranking Member of the Committee or 
     subcommittee as it relates to witnesses who are called by the 
     minority to testify, provided that the witness or the 
     relevant Chairman or Ranking Minority Member has submitted, 
     prior to the witness's appearance, a written explanation to 
     the reasons testimony has not been made available to the 
     Committee or subcommittee. If a witness who is not an 
     official of the U.S. Government has not submitted testimony 
     as required by paragraph (1) and no such written explanation 
     has been submitted, the witness shall be released from 
     testifying unless a majority of the Committee or subcommittee 
     votes to accept his or her testimony.
       (3) Remote Witness Participation. The Chairman of the full 
     Committee or a subcommittee shall promptly, and not later 
     than 48 hours beforehand if possible, notify the relevant 
     Ranking Member of any witness who is likely to present 
     testimony other than in person, such as by videoconference. A 
     witness may not testify via telephone or other audio-only 
     medium without the concurrence of the Chairman and Ranking 
     Member of the Committee or subcommittee. The relevant 
     Chairman shall make reasonable efforts to verify the identity 
     of any witness participating remotely.
       (4) `Truth In Testimony' Disclosure. In the case of a 
     witness appearing in a nongovernmental capacity, a written 
     statement of proposed testimony shall, to the extent 
     practicable, include: a curriculum vitae; a disclosure of the 
     amount and source of any Federal grant (or subgrant thereof) 
     or contract (or subcontract thereof), or of any contract or 
     payment originating with a foreign government, received 
     during the current fiscal year or either of the two previous 
     fiscal years by the witness or by an entity represented by 
     the witness, to the extent that such information is relevant 
     to the subject matter of, and the witness' representational 
     capacity at, the hearing; and a disclosure of whether the 
     witness is an active registrant under the Foreign Agents 
     Registration Act (FARA). Such statements, with appropriate 
     redactions to protect the privacy, safety, or security of the 
     witness, shall be made publicly available in electronic form 
     not later than one day after the witness appears.
       (5) Witness Presentation. A witness shall limit his or her 
     oral presentation to a brief summary of his or her written 
     statement.
       (6) Translation. A witness requiring an interpreter or 
     translator should include in the testimony provided pursuant 
     to paragraph (1) the identity of the interpreter or 
     translator that the witness intends to use. Unless properly 
     noticed as a separate witness, an interpreter or translator 
     appearing before the Committee should not present views or 
     statements other than those expressed by the witness.
       (c) Oaths. The Chairman of the full Committee or a 
     subcommittee, or any Member of the Committee designated by 
     the relevant Chairman, may administer oaths to any witness 
     appearing before the Committee.


          7. Preparation and Maintenance of Committee Records

       An accurate stenographic record shall be made of all 
     hearings and markup sessions. Members of the Committee and 
     any witness may examine the transcript of his or her own 
     remarks and may make any grammatical or technical changes 
     that do not substantively alter the record. Any such Member 
     or witness shall return the transcript to the Committee 
     offices within seven (7) calendar days (not including 
     Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) after receipt of the 
     transcript, or as soon thereafter as is practicable.
       Any information supplied for the record at the request of a 
     Member of the Committee shall be provided to the Member when 
     received by the Committee.
       Transcripts of hearings and markup sessions (except for the 
     record of a meeting or hearing which is closed to the public) 
     shall be printed as soon as is practicable after receipt of 
     the corrected versions, except that the Chairman may order 
     the transcript of a hearing to be printed without the 
     corrections of a Member or witness if the Chairman determines 
     that such Member or witness has been afforded a reasonable 
     time to correct such transcript and such transcript has not 
     been returned within such time.
       The records of the Committee at the National Archives and 
     Records Administration shall be made available for public use 
     in accordance with rule VII of the House of Representatives. 
     The Chairman shall notify the Ranking Minority Member of any 
     decision, pursuant to clause 3(b)(3) or clause 4(b) of

[[Page H694]]

     the rule, to withhold a record otherwise available, and the 
     matter shall be presented to the Committee for a 
     determination on the written request of any Member of the 
     Committee.
       The Committee shall, to the maximum extent feasible, make 
     its publications available in electronic form.


          8. Extraneous Materials in Committee Hearings Prints

       No extraneous material shall be printed in either the body 
     or appendices of any Committee or subcommittee hearing, 
     except matter which has been accepted for inclusion in the 
     record during the hearing or by agreement of the Chairman of 
     the full Committee or a subcommittee and Ranking Minority 
     Member of the Committee or subcommittee within five (5) 
     calendar days of the hearing. Copies of bills and other 
     legislation under consideration and responses to written 
     questions submitted by Members shall not be considered 
     extraneous material.
       Extraneous material in either the body or appendices of any 
     hearing to be printed which would be in excess of eight (8) 
     printed pages (for any one submission) shall be accompanied 
     by a written request to the relevant Chairman. Such written 
     request shall contain an estimate in writing from the Public 
     Printer of the probable cost of publishing such material.


                   9. Information on Committee Action

       (a) Record Votes. The result of each record vote in any 
     meeting of the Committee outside of executive session shall 
     be made publicly available in electronic form within 48 hours 
     of such record vote. Such result shall include a description 
     of the amendment, motion, order, or other proposition, the 
     name of each Member voting for and against, and the Members 
     present but not voting.
       (b) Adopted Amendments. Not later than 24 hours after the 
     adoption of any amendment to a measure or matter considered 
     by the Committee, the text of each such amendment shall be 
     made publicly available in electronic form.
       (c) Hearing and Markup Attendance. Member attendance at 
     each Committee hearing and markup shall be recorded and 
     included in the Committee print of the transcript of that 
     hearing or markup.


                              10. Proxies

       Proxy Voting is not Permitted in the Committee or in 
     Subcommittees.


                              11. Reports

       (a) Reports on Bills and Resolutions. To the extent 
     practicable, not later than 24 hours before a report is to be 
     filed with the Clerk of the House on a measure that has been 
     ordered reported by the Committee, the Chairman shall make 
     available for inspection by all Members of the Committee a 
     copy of the draft Committee report in order to afford Members 
     adequate information and the opportunity to draft and file 
     any supplemental, minority or additional views which they may 
     deem appropriate.
       With respect to each record vote on a motion to report any 
     measure or matter of a public character, and on any amendment 
     offered to the measure or matter, the total number of votes 
     cast for and against, and the names of those Members voting 
     for and against, shall be included in any Committee report on 
     the measure or matter.
       (b) Prior Approval of Certain Reports. No Committee, 
     subcommittee, or staff report, study, or other document which 
     purports to express publicly the views, findings, 
     conclusions, or recommendations of the Committee or a 
     subcommittee may be released to the public or filed with the 
     Clerk of the House unless approved by a majority of the 
     Committee or subcommittee, as appropriate. A proposed 
     investigative or oversight report shall be considered as read 
     if it has been available to Members of the Committee for at 
     least 24 hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, or legal 
     holidays except when the House is in session on such a day). 
     In any case in which clause 2(1) of rule XI and clause 
     3(a)(1) of rule XIII of the House of Representatives does not 
     apply, each Member of the Committee or subcommittee shall be 
     given an opportunity to have views or a disclaimer included 
     as part of the material filed or released, as the case may 
     be.
       (c) Foreign Travel Reports. At the same time that the 
     report required by clause 8(b)(3) of rule X of the House of 
     Representatives, regarding foreign travel reports, is 
     submitted to the Chairman, Members and employees of the 
     Committee shall provide a report to the Chairman listing all 
     official meetings, interviews, inspection tours and other 
     official functions in which the individual participated, by 
     country and date. Under extraordinary circumstances, the 
     Chairman may waive the listing in such report of an official 
     meeting, interview, inspection tour, or other official 
     function. The report shall be maintained in the Committee 
     offices and shall be available for public inspection during 
     normal business hours. Except in extraordinary circumstances, 
     no Member or employee of the Committee will be authorized for 
     additional Committee travel until the reports described in 
     this subsection have been submitted to the Chairman for that 
     person's prior Committee travel.


                  12. Reporting Bills and Resolutions

       Except in extraordinary circumstances, bills and 
     resolutions will not be considered by the Committee unless 
     and until the appropriate subcommittee has recommended the 
     bill or resolution for Committee action, and will not be 
     taken to the House of Representatives for action unless and 
     until the Committee or a relevant subcommittee has ordered 
     reported such bill or resolution, a quorum being present.
       Except in extraordinary circumstances, a bill or resolution 
     originating in the House of Representatives that contains 
     exclusively findings and policy declarations or expressions 
     of the sense of the House of Representatives or the sense of 
     the Congress shall not be considered by the Committee or a 
     subcommittee unless such bill or resolution has at least 25 
     House co-sponsors, at least 10 of whom are Members of the 
     Committee.
       For purposes of this rule, extraordinary circumstances will 
     be determined by the Chairman, after consultation with the 
     Ranking Minority Member and such other Members of the 
     Committee as the Chairman deems appropriate.
       The Committee or a subcommittee shall not consider a bill 
     or resolution originating in the House of Representatives 
     that expresses appreciation, commends, congratulates, 
     celebrates, recognizes the accomplishments of, or celebrates 
     the anniversary of, an entity, event, group, individual, 
     institution, team, or government program, or that 
     acknowledges or recognizes a period of time for such 
     purposes, except in circumstances determined by the Chairman 
     with the concurrence of the Ranking Minority Member.
       The Chairman is directed to offer a motion under clause 1 
     of rule XXII of the Rules of the House whenever the Chairman 
     considers it appropriate.


                           13. Staff Services

       The Committee staff shall be selected and organized so that 
     it can provide a comprehensive range of professional services 
     in the field of foreign affairs to the Committee, the 
     subcommittees, and all its Members. The staff shall include 
     persons with training and experience in foreign affairs, 
     making available to the Committee individuals with knowledge 
     of major countries, areas, and U.S. overseas programs and 
     operations.
       Subject to clause 9 of rule X of the House of 
     Representatives, the staff of the Committee, except as 
     provided in paragraph (c), shall be appointed, and may be 
     removed, by the Chairman with the approval of the majority of 
     the Members in the majority party of the Committee. Their 
     remuneration shall be fixed by the Chairman, and they shall 
     work under the general supervision and direction of the 
     Chairman. Staff assignments are to be authorized by the 
     Chairman or by the Staff Director under the direction of the 
     Chairman.
       Subject to clause 9 of rule X of the House of 
     Representatives, the staff of the Committee assigned to the 
     minority shall be appointed, their remuneration determined, 
     and may be removed, by the Ranking Minority Member with the 
     approval of the majority of the minority party Members of the 
     Committee. Such staff shall work under the general 
     supervision and direction of the Ranking Minority Member with 
     the approval or consultation of the minority Members of the 
     Committee.
       The Chairman shall ensure that sufficient staff is made 
     available to each subcommittee to carry out its 
     responsibilities under the rules of the Committee. The 
     Chairman shall ensure that the minority party is fairly 
     treated in the appointment of such staff.


              14. Number and Jurisdiction of Subcommittees

       (a) Full Committee. The full Committee will be responsible 
     for oversight and legislation relating to: foreign assistance 
     (including development assistance, Millennium Challenge 
     Corporation, the Millennium Challenge Account, HIV/AIDS in 
     foreign countries, security assistance, and Public Law 480 
     programs abroad); national security developments affecting 
     foreign policy; strategic planning and agreements; war 
     powers, treaties, executive agreements, and the deployment 
     and use of United States Armed Forces; peacekeeping, peace 
     enforcement, and enforcement of United Nations or other 
     international sanctions; arms control and disarmament issues; 
     the United States Agency for International Development; 
     activities and policies of the State, Commerce, and Defense 
     Departments and other agencies related to the Arms Export 
     Control Act and the Foreign Assistance Act, including export 
     and licensing policy for munitions items and technology and 
     dual-use equipment and technology; international law; 
     promotion of democracy; international law enforcement issues, 
     including narcotics control programs and activities; 
     Broadcasting Board of Governors; embassy security; 
     international broadcasting; public diplomacy, including 
     international communication and information policy, and 
     international education and exchange programs; and all other 
     matters not specifically assigned to a subcommittee. The full 
     Committee will have jurisdiction over legislation with 
     respect to the administration of the Export Administration 
     Act, including the export and licensing of dual-use equipment 
     and technology and other matters related to international 
     economic policy and trade not otherwise assigned to a 
     subcommittee, and with respect to the United Nations, its 
     affiliated agencies, and other international organizations, 
     including assessed and voluntary contributions to such 
     organizations. The full Committee may conduct oversight and 
     investigations with respect to any matter within the 
     jurisdiction of the Committee as defined in the Rules of the 
     House of Representatives.
       (b) Subcommittees. There shall be six (6) standing 
     subcommittees. The names and jurisdiction of those 
     subcommittees shall be as follows:

[[Page H695]]

       (1) Functional Subcommittee. There shall be one 
     subcommittee with functional jurisdiction:
       Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade: 
     Oversight and legislative responsibilities over the United 
     States' efforts to manage and coordinate international 
     programs to combat terrorism as coordinated by the Department 
     of State and other agencies, and efforts to bring 
     international terrorists to justice. With the concurrence of 
     the Chairman of the full Committee, oversight of, and 
     legislation pertaining to, nonproliferation matters involving 
     nuclear, chemical, biological and other weapons of mass 
     destruction, except for legislation involving the Foreign 
     Assistance Act, the Arms Export Control Act, the Export 
     Administration Act, and sanctions laws pertaining to 
     individual countries and the provision of foreign assistance 
     (which is reserved to the full Committee). Oversight of 
     matters relating to international economic and trade policy; 
     commerce with foreign countries; international investment 
     policy; the Overseas Private Investment Corporation and the 
     Trade and Development Agency; commodity agreements; and 
     special oversight of international financial and monetary 
     institutions; the Export-Import Bank, and customs. With the 
     concurrence of the Chairman of the full Committee, 
     legislative jurisdiction over measures related to export 
     promotion and measures related to the Overseas Private 
     Investment Corporation and the Trade and Development Agency.
       (2) Regional Subcommittees. There shall be five 
     subcommittees with regional jurisdiction: the Subcommittee on 
     Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights, and International 
     Organizations; the Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific; the 
     Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats; the 
     Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa; and the 
     Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere. As detailed below, 
     two of the regional subcommittees also shall have functional 
     jurisdiction.
       The regional subcommittees shall have jurisdiction over the 
     following within their respective regions:
       (1) Matters affecting the political relations between the 
     United States and other countries and regions, including 
     resolutions or other legislative measures directed to such 
     relations.
       (2) Legislation with respect to disaster assistance outside 
     the Foreign Assistance Act, boundary issues, and 
     international claims.
       (3) Legislation with respect to region- or country-specific 
     loans or other financial relations outside the Foreign 
     Assistance Act.
       (4) Legislation and oversight regarding human rights 
     practices in particular countries.
       (5) Oversight of regional lending institutions.
       (6) Oversight of matters related to the regional activities 
     of the United Nations, of its affiliated agencies, and of 
     other multilateral institutions.
       (7) Identification and development of options for meeting 
     future problems and issues relating to U.S. interests in the 
     region.
       (8) Oversight of base rights and other facilities access 
     agreements and regional security pacts.
       (9) Concurrent oversight jurisdiction with respect to 
     matters assigned to the functional subcommittees insofar as 
     they may affect the region.
       (10) Oversight of foreign assistance activities affecting 
     the region, with the concurrence of the Chairman of the full 
     Committee.
       (11) Such other matters as the Chairman of the full 
     Committee may determine.
       The Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human 
     Rights, and International Organizations: In addition to its 
     regional jurisdiction, oversight of: international health 
     issues, including transboundary infectious diseases, maternal 
     health and child survival, and programs related to the global 
     ability to address health issues; population issues; the 
     United Nations and its affiliated agencies (excluding 
     peacekeeping and enforcement of United Nations or other 
     international sanctions); the American Red Cross; and the 
     Peace Corps. In addition, legislation and oversight 
     pertaining to: implementation of the Universal Declaration of 
     Human Rights; other matters relating to internationally-
     recognized human rights, including legislation aimed at the 
     promotion of human rights and democracy generally; and the 
     Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child 
     Abduction, and related issues.
       The Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats: 
     In addition to its regional jurisdiction, with the 
     concurrence of the Chairman of the full Committee, oversight 
     related to emerging foreign threats to the national security 
     and interests of the United States.


                 15. Powers and Duties of Subcommittees

       (a) In General. Each subcommittee is authorized to meet, 
     hold hearings, receive evidence, and report to the full 
     Committee on all matters referred to it.
       (b) Scheduling. Subcommittee chairmen shall set meeting 
     dates after consultation with the Chairman, other 
     subcommittee chairmen, the relevant Ranking Minority Member 
     and other appropriate Members, with a view toward minimizing 
     scheduling conflicts. Subcommittee meetings shall not be 
     scheduled to occur simultaneously with meetings of the full 
     Committee. Hearings shall not be scheduled to occur prior to 
     the first vote or subsequent to the last vote of a 
     legislative week, or outside of Washington, D.C., without 
     prior consultation with the relevant Ranking Minority Member. 
     In order to ensure orderly administration and fair assignment 
     of hearing and meeting rooms, the subject, time, and location 
     of hearings and meetings shall be arranged in advance with 
     the Chairman through the Staff Director of the Committee.
       (c) Vice Chairmen. The Chairman of the Full Committee shall 
     designate a Member of the majority party on each subcommittee 
     as its vice chairman.
       (d) Participation. The Chairman of the full Committee and 
     the Ranking Minority Member may attend the meetings and 
     participate in the activities of all subcommittees of which 
     they are not Members, except that they may not vote or be 
     counted for a quorum in such subcommittees.
       (e) Required Oversight Hearings. During each 180-day period 
     following organization of the Committee, each subcommittee 
     shall hold at least one hearing on oversight of U.S. 
     Government activities.


                   16. Referral of Bills by Chairman

       In accordance with rule 14 of the Committee and to the 
     extent practicable, all legislation and other matters 
     referred to the Committee shall be referred by the Chairman 
     to a subcommittee of primary jurisdiction within two (2) 
     weeks. In accordance with rule 14 of the Committee, 
     legislation may also be referred to additional subcommittees 
     for consideration. Unless otherwise directed by the Chairman, 
     such subcommittees shall act on or be discharged from 
     consideration of legislation that has been approved by the 
     subcommittee of primary jurisdiction within two (2) weeks of 
     such action. In referring any legislation to a subcommittee, 
     the Chairman may specify a date by which the subcommittee 
     shall report thereon to the full Committee.
       Subcommittees with regional jurisdiction shall have joint 
     jurisdiction with the Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, 
     Global Human Rights, and International Organizations over 
     legislation regarding human rights practices in particular 
     countries within their regions.
       The Chairman may designate a subcommittee Chairman or other 
     Member to take responsibility as manager of a bill or 
     resolution during its consideration in the House of 
     Representatives.


      17. Party Ratios on Subcommittees and Conference Committees

       The majority party caucus of the Committee shall determine 
     an appropriate ratio of majority to minority party Members 
     for each subcommittee. Party representation on each 
     subcommittee or conference committee shall be no less 
     favorable to the majority party than the ratio for the full 
     Committee. The Chairman and the Ranking Minority Member are 
     authorized to negotiate matters affecting such ratios 
     including the size of subcommittees and conference 
     committees.


                  18. Subcommittee Funding and Records

       Each subcommittee shall have adequate funds to discharge 
     its responsibility for legislation and oversight.
       In order to facilitate Committee compliance with clause 
     2(e)(1) of rule XI of the House of Representatives, each 
     subcommittee shall keep a complete record of all subcommittee 
     actions which shall include a record of the votes on any 
     question on which a record vote is demanded. The result of 
     each record vote shall be promptly made available to the full 
     Committee for inspection by the public in accordance with 
     rule 9 of the Committee.
       All subcommittee hearings, records, data, charts, and files 
     shall be kept distinct from the congressional office records 
     of the Member serving as Chairman of the subcommittee. 
     Subcommittee records shall be coordinated with the records of 
     the full Committee, shall be the property of the House, and 
     all Members of the House shall have access thereto.


                 19. Meetings of Subcommittee Chairmen

       The Chairman shall call a meeting of the subcommittee 
     chairmen on a regular basis not less frequently than once a 
     month. Such a meeting need not be held if there is no 
     business to conduct. It shall be the practice at such 
     meetings to review the current agenda and activities of each 
     of the subcommittees.


                  20. Access to Classified Information

       (a) Authorized Persons. In accordance with the stipulations 
     of the Rules of the House of Representatives, all Members of 
     the House who have executed the oath required by clause 13 of 
     rule XXIII of the House of Representatives shall be 
     authorized to have access to classified information within 
     the possession of the Committee.
       Members of the Committee staff shall be considered 
     authorized to have access to classified information within 
     the possession of the Committee when they have the proper 
     security clearances, when they have executed the oath 
     required by clause 13 of rule XXIII of the House of 
     Representatives, and when they have a demonstrable need to 
     know. The decision on whether a given staff member has a need 
     to know will be made on the following basis:
       (1) In the case of the full Committee majority staff, by 
     the Chairman, acting through the Staff Director;
       (2) In the case of the full Committee minority staff, by 
     the Ranking Minority Member of the Committee, acting through 
     the Minority Staff Director;
       (3) In the case of subcommittee majority staff, by the 
     chairman of the subcommittee;

[[Page H696]]

       (4) In the case of the subcommittee minority staff, by the 
     Ranking Minority Member of the subcommittee.
       No other individuals shall be considered authorized 
     persons, unless so designated by the Chairman of the full 
     Committee.
       (b) Designated Persons. Each Committee Member is permitted 
     to designate one member of his or her staff as having the 
     right of access to information classified Confidential. Such 
     designated persons must have the proper security clearance, 
     have executed the oath required by clause 13 of rule XXIII of 
     the House of Representatives, and have a need to know as 
     determined by his or her principal. Upon request of a 
     Committee Member in specific instances, a designated person 
     also shall be permitted access to information classified 
     Secret which has been furnished to the Committee pursuant to 
     section 36 of the Arms Export Control Act, as amended. Upon 
     the written request of a Committee Member and with the 
     approval of the Chairman in specific instances, a designated 
     person may be permitted access to other classified materials. 
     Designation of a staff person shall be by letter from the 
     Committee Member to the Chairman.
       (c) Location. Classified information will be stored in 
     secure safes in the Office of the Security Officer and in the 
     Office of the Minority Staff Director. All materials 
     classified Top Secret or higher must be stored in a Secure 
     Compartmentalized Information Facility (SCIF).
       (d) Handling. Materials classified Confidential or Secret 
     may be taken from Committee offices to other Committee 
     offices and hearing rooms by Members of the Committee and 
     authorized Committee staff in connection with hearings and 
     briefings of the Committee or its subcommittees for which 
     such information is deemed to be essential. Removal of such 
     information from the Committee offices shall be only with the 
     permission of the Chairman under procedures designed to 
     ensure the safe handling and storage of such information at 
     all times. Except as provided in this paragraph, Top Secret 
     materials may not be taken from approved storage areas for 
     any purpose, except that such materials may be taken to 
     hearings and other meetings that are being conducted at the 
     Top Secret level when necessary. Materials classified Top 
     Secret may otherwise be used under conditions approved by the 
     Chairman after consultation with the Ranking Minority Member.
       (e) Notice. Appropriate notice of the receipt of classified 
     documents received by the Committee from the Executive Branch 
     will be sent promptly to Committee Members through the Survey 
     of Activities or by other means.
       (f) Access. Except as provided for above, access to 
     materials classified Top Secret or otherwise restricted held 
     by the Committee will be in approved Committee spaces. The 
     following procedures will be observed:
       (1) Authorized persons will be permitted access to 
     classified documents after inquiring of the Staff Director or 
     an assigned staff member. Access to the SCIF will be afforded 
     during regular Committee hours.
       (2) Authorized persons will be required to identify 
     themselves, to identify the documents or information they 
     wish to view, and to sign the Classified Materials Log, which 
     is kept with the classified information.
       (3) The assigned staff member will be responsible for 
     maintaining a log which identifies: (1) authorized persons 
     seeking access, (2) the classified information requested, and 
     (3) the time of arrival and departure of such persons. The 
     assigned staff member will also assure that the classified 
     materials are returned to the proper location.
       (g) Divulgence. Classified information provided to the 
     Committee by the Executive Branch shall be handled in 
     accordance with the procedures that apply within the 
     Executive Branch for the protection of such information. Any 
     classified information to which access has been gained 
     through the Committee may not be divulged to any unauthorized 
     person. Classified material shall not be photocopied or 
     otherwise reproduced. In no event shall classified 
     information be discussed in a non-secure environment. 
     Apparent violations of this rule should be reported as 
     promptly as possible to the Chairman for appropriate action.
       (h) Other Regulations. The Chairman, after consultation 
     with the Ranking Minority Member, may establish such 
     additional regulations and procedures as in his judgment may 
     be necessary to safeguard classified information under the 
     control of the Committee. Members of the Committee will be 
     given notice of any such regulations and procedures promptly. 
     They may be modified or waived in any or all particulars by a 
     majority vote of the full Committee.


          21. Broadcasting of Committee Hearings and Meetings

       All Committee and subcommittee meetings or hearings which 
     are open to the public may be covered, in whole or in part, 
     by television broadcast, radio broadcast, and still 
     photography, or by any such methods of coverage in accordance 
     with the provisions of clause 3 of House rule XI.
       The Chairman of the full Committee or a subcommittee shall 
     determine, in his or her discretion, the number of television 
     and still cameras permitted in a hearing or meeting room, but 
     shall not limit the number of television or still cameras to 
     fewer than two (2) representatives from each medium.
       Such coverage shall be in accordance with the following 
     requirements contained in section 116(b) of the Legislative 
     Reorganization Act of 1970, and clause 4 of XI of the Rules 
     of the House of Representatives:
       (a) If the television, Internet or radio coverage of the 
     hearing or meeting is to be presented to the public as live 
     coverage, that coverage shall be conducted and presented 
     without commercial sponsorship.
       (b) No witness served with a subpoena by the Committee 
     shall be required against his will to be photographed at any 
     hearing or to give evidence or testimony while the 
     broadcasting of that hearing, by radio or television is being 
     conducted. At the request of any such witness who does not 
     wish to be subjected to radio, television, Internet or still 
     photography coverage, all lenses shall be covered and all 
     microphones used for coverage turned off. This subparagraph 
     is supplementary to clause 2(k)(5) of rule XI of the Rules of 
     the House of Representatives relating to the protection of 
     the rights of witnesses.
       (c) The allocation among cameras permitted by the Chairman 
     of the full Committee or a subcommittee in a hearing room 
     shall be in accordance with fair and equitable procedures 
     devised by the Executive Committee of the Radio and 
     Television Correspondents' Galleries.
       (d) Television cameras shall be placed so as not to 
     obstruct in any way the space between any witness giving 
     evidence or testimony and Member of the Committee or its 
     subcommittees or the visibility of that witness and that 
     Member to each other.
       (e) Television cameras shall operate from fixed positions 
     but shall not be placed in positions which obstruct 
     unnecessarily the coverage of the hearing by the other media.
       (f) Equipment necessary for coverage by the television and 
     radio media shall not be installed in, or removed from, the 
     hearing or meeting room while the Committee or subcommittee 
     is in session.
       (g) Floodlights, spotlights, strobe lights, and flashguns 
     shall not be used in providing any method of coverage of the 
     hearing or meeting, except that the television media may 
     install additional lighting in the hearing room, without cost 
     to the Government, in order to raise the ambient lighting 
     level in the hearing room to the lowest level necessary to 
     provide adequate television coverage of the hearing or 
     meeting at the current state-of-the-art level of television 
     coverage.
       (h) In the allocation of the number of still photographers 
     permitted by the Chairman of the full Committee or a 
     subcommittee in a hearing or meeting room, preference shall 
     be given to photographers from Associated Press Photos, 
     United Press International News pictures, and Reuters. If 
     requests are made by more of the media than will be permitted 
     by the Chairman of the full Committee or a subcommittee for 
     coverage of the hearing or meeting by still photography, that 
     coverage shall be made on the basis of a fair and equitable 
     pool arrangement devised by the Standing Committee of Press 
     Photographers.
       (i) Photographers shall not position themselves, at any 
     time during the course of the hearing or meeting, between the 
     witness table and the Members of the Committee or its 
     subcommittees.
       (j) Photographers shall not place themselves in positions 
     which obstruct unnecessarily the coverage of the hearing by 
     the other media.
       (k) Personnel providing coverage by the television and 
     radio media shall be currently accredited to the Radio and 
     Television Correspondents' Galleries.
       (1) Personnel providing coverage by still photography shall 
     be currently accredited to the Press Photographers' Gallery 
     Committee of Press Photographers.
       (m) Personnel providing coverage by the television and 
     radio media and by still photography shall conduct themselves 
     and their coverage activities in an orderly and unobtrusive 
     manner.


                          22. Subpoena Powers

       A subpoena may be authorized and issued by the Chairman, in 
     accordance with clause 2(m) of rule XI of the House of 
     Representatives, in the conduct of any investigation or 
     activity or series of investigations or activities within the 
     jurisdiction of the Committee, following consultation with 
     the Ranking Minority Member.
       In addition, a subpoena may be authorized and issued by the 
     Committee or its subcommittees in accordance with clause 2(m) 
     of rule XI of the House of Representatives, in the conduct of 
     any investigation or activity or series of investigations or 
     activities, when authorized by a majority of the Members 
     voting, a majority of the Committee or subcommittee being 
     present.
       Authorized subpoenas shall be signed by the Chairman or by 
     any Member designated by the Committee.


            23. Recommendation for Appointment of Conferees

       Whenever the Speaker is to appoint a conference committee, 
     the Chairman shall recommend to the Speaker as conferees 
     those Members of the Committee who are primarily responsible 
     for the legislation (including to the full extent practicable 
     the principal proponents of the major provisions of the bill 
     as it passed the House), who have actively participated in 
     the Committee or subcommittee consideration of the 
     legislation, and who agree to attend the meetings of the 
     conference. With regard to the appointment of minority 
     Members, the Chairman shall consult with the Ranking Minority 
     Member.

[[Page H697]]

  



                         24. General Oversight

       Not later than February 15th of the first session of a 
     Congress, the Committee shall meet in open session, with a 
     quorum present, to adopt its oversight plans for that 
     Congress for submission to the Committee on House 
     Administration and the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, in accordance with the provisions of clause 2(d) of 
     rule X of the House of Representatives.
       In accordance with the provisions of clause 2(n) of rule XI 
     of the House of Representatives, the Committee or a 
     subcommittee thereof shall hold at least one hearing during 
     each 120-day period following its establishment on the topic 
     of waste, fraud, abuse, or mismanagement in programs within 
     its jurisdiction, as documented in reports received from a 
     Federal Office of the Inspector General or the Comptroller 
     General of the United States that have been provided to the 
     Ranking Minority Member prior to the notice of the hearing 
     pursuant to Committee rule 5.


                  25. Other Procedures and Regulations

       The Chairman, in consultation with the Ranking Minority 
     Member, may establish such other procedures and take such 
     actions as may be necessary to carry out the foregoing rules 
     or to facilitate the effective operation of the Committee. 
     Any additional procedures or regulations may be modified or 
     rescinded in any or all particulars by a majority vote of the 
     full Committee.

                          ____________________



