

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H307]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




RESTORE THE PROMISES OF HIGH QUALITY OF CARE, LOWER PRICES, AND DOCTOR 
                               OF CHOICE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Olson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, Texans know the difference between right and 
wrong, between truth and lie.
  The Democrats promised four things when they passed ObamaCare: number 
one, you can keep your insurance; number two, you cankeep your doctor; 
number three, you have a better quality of care; and number four, that 
care will come at a lower cost. Withinweeks, we found out that all four 
promises were being broken; all four were lies.
  But don't take my word for it. Take the word of the constituent from 
Texas 22, my boss Andrea Kulberg. Andrea writes:

       I am a 42-year-old, legally blind, single parent in Sugar 
     Land, self-employed, working very hard torear two great kids, 
     ages 15 and 13.
       I have a master's degree in education and work extremely 
     hard to provide a stable,comfortable life for my kids. In 
     doing so, I have invested time and dollars into my own health 
     care because the kids need me tobe healthy.
       I lost my right eye a few years ago to complications from 
     ROP, too much oxygen at birth, and my left eye isseverely 
     impaired with potential for complications that would need 
     immediate specialized care. I have different 
     specialistdoctors for different issues related to each eye.
       Additionally, I am a cancer survivor, renal cancer, RCC, 
     which alsorequires specialist follow-up. For these reasons 
     and others, I have spent time and efforts to get drivers to 
     take me tospecialists for these specific positions.
       Over the years, I have paid high healthcare premiums for 
     this, usually around $500per month--that is crazy in itself--
     for a PPO to allow me freedom to keep my existing doctor. I 
     paid these fees and sacrificedother luxuries in life so I 
     could get the care I needed with the doctors I wanted. They 
     are the best doctors in their respectivefields, and my trust 
     in them is important with this type of care.
       I don't have the PPO option now for my health care in 
     2016through the ACA. The HMOs and EPOs being offered are not 
     being accepted by my doctors.
       I am certain you have heard this aswell, but I am writing 
     to you anyway because it has to be said that among these 
     needs of many others in similar situations as myown, my 
     remaining eyesight and renal function should never be less 
     important than anything in politics. And while I know 
     thatthere were many, many people in this same boat, for 
     today, while I write this letter, it is about my kids getting 
     to keep theirmom and about me keeping the ability to see them 
     grow up.
       I know PPOs won't suddenly appear on healthcare.gov because 
     I sentthis email. I know this can't be immediately fixed. But 
     I write because it needs to be said; it needs to be heard; it 
     needs tobe acted on.
       I don't know the right actions that need to happen. I will 
     leave that to your area of expertise. But I know theway it is 
     now doesn't work.
       In the past, I paid a lot and had my share of insurance 
     issues, but at least I could stillchoose my own doctor. At 
     least in a crisis, which I have had, I went straight to the 
     doctor who knew me and my history and couldresolve it without 
     a referral and delay after delay.
       HMOs might work for some, but not for those who don't want 
     one. Lettersto a Congressman are supposed to be more formal, 
     but seriously, what country are we in?
       I am not asking for a handout. I amasking for a reasonable 
     choice of a basic PPO, which I have paid for in the past and 
     am asking to have the option to pay fornow.
       I am not just writing to vent. I am asking for some sort of 
     solution through this train wreck of healthcare options 
     orlack thereof.
       If President Obama thinks this is actually working, then he 
     is more blind than me. And that is as nice as Ican be now.
       Thanks for hearing me out and for looking for solutions 
     that impact real lives.
       Respectfully, AndreaKulberg.

  Mr. Speaker, I don't care if you are a Democrat or Republican. Hear 
Andrea's words--act. Let's rescue Andrea from ObamaCareand restore the 
promises of quality of care, high quality of care, lower price, doctor 
of choice.

                          ____________________



