

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 47 (Friday, March 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 47 (Friday, March 17, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2182-H2183]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. WILLIAMS:
       H.R. 1593. A bill to repeal the corporate average fuel 
     economy standards; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Ms. Norton, and Mr. 
             Connolly):
       H.R. 1594. A bill to ensure that the percentage increase in 
     rates of basic pay for prevailing wage employees shall be 
     equal to the percentage increase received by other Federal 
     employees in the same pay locality, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. ROTHFUS (for himself and Mr. Stivers):
       H.R. 1595. A bill to amend the Federal Deposit Insurance 
     Act to allow mutual capital certificates to satisfy capital 
     requirements for mutual depositories; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. BYRNE (for himself, Mr. King of New York, Mr. 
             Neal, Mr. Meehan, Mr. Murphy of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, Mr. Lynch, and Mr. McGovern):
       H.R. 1596. A bill to establish the Commission to study the 
     potential creation of a National Museum of Irish American 
     History, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, and in addition to the Committee on House 
     Administration, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. BRAT (for himself, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, and 
             Mr. Knight):
       H.R. 1597. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     clarify the responsibilities of commercial market 
     representatives, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Small Business.
           By Mr. GOHMERT (for himself and Mr. Duncan of South 
             Carolina):
       H.R. 1598. A bill to amend title 28, United States Code, to 
     divide the ninth judicial circuit of the United States into 2 
     circuits, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas:
       H.R. 1599. A bill to prohibit the provision of performance 
     awards to employees of the Internal Revenue Service who owe 
     back taxes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. POE of Texas:
       H.R. 1600. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to make permanent the work opportunity tax credit for 
     veterans and to allow an exemption from an employer's 
     employment taxes in an amount equivalent to the value of such 
     credit in the case of veterans; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Ms. SINEMA (for herself and Mr. Zeldin):
       H.R. 1601. A bill to amend the Elementary and Secondary 
     Education Act of 1965 to clarify when certain academic 
     assessments shall be administered; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 1602. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide an exclusion from gross income for AmeriCorps 
     educational awards; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. BASS:
       H.R. 1603. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to improve education opportunities for physician assistants, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Ms. BASS:
       H.R. 1604. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to extend to physician assistants eligibility for 
     Medicaid incentive payments for the adoption and use of 
     certified electronic health records, whether or not such 
     physician assistants practice at a rural health center or 
     Federally qualified health center; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Ms. BASS:
       H.R. 1605. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     provide loan repayment incentives for physician assistants, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CARTER of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Loebsack, 
             Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Gosar, 
             and Mr. Pittenger):
       H.R. 1606. A bill to amend title XXVII of the Public Health 
     Service Act to improve health care coverage under vision and 
     dental plans, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DEUTCH (for himself and Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 1607. A bill to establish the National Criminal 
     Justice Commission; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ESPAILLAT (for himself, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             Correa, Mrs. Torres, Mr. Sablan, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. 
             Soto, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Costa, Mr. Serrano, Mr. 
             Gallego, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Michelle 
             Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Judy 
             Chu of California, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, 
             Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Carbajal, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Moore, Mr. Beyer, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mr. O'Rourke, and Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia):
       H.R. 1608. A bill to require agents and officers of U.S. 
     Immigration and Customs Enforcement and U.S. Customs and 
     Border Protection to wear body cameras, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security, and in 
     addition to the Committees on the Judiciary, and Ways and 
     Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself, Mr. Allen, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Mr. Aguilar, Mr. Ratcliffe, and Mr. Ted Lieu 
             of California):
       H.R. 1609. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     support meeting the increasing needs of the United States for 
     a cybersecurity and information assurance workforce by 
     reinvigorating and modifying the Information Assurance 
     Scholarship Program of the Department of Defense, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico (for 
             herself and Mr. Conyers):

[[Page H2183]]

  

       H.R. 1610. A bill to amend title XXVII of the Public Health 
     Service Act, and title XVIII of the Social Security Act, to 
     direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to conduct 
     audits of medical loss ratio reports submitted by health 
     insurance issuers, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself, 
             Mrs. Dingell, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, and Mr. Beyer):
       H.R. 1611. A bill to require the Securities and Exchange 
     Commission to establish a Gender Diversity Advisory Group to 
     study and make recommendations on strategies to increase 
     gender diversity among the members of the board of directors 
     of issuers, to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to 
     require issuers to make disclosures to shareholders with 
     respect to gender diversity, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself, 
             Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Crowley, 
             Mr. Cummings, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Engel, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Keating, 
             Mr. Langevin, Mr. Lynch, Ms. McCollum, Mr. McGovern, 
             Mr. Meeks, Mr. Nadler, Ms. Norton, Mr. O'Rourke, Ms. 
             Pingree, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Vargas, Ms. 
             Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Serrano, Mrs. Watson Coleman, 
             Ms. Wasserman Schultz, and Mrs. Lowey):
       H.R. 1612. A bill to require criminal background checks on 
     all firearms transactions occurring at gun shows; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 1613. A bill to amend the Surface Mining Control and 
     Reclamation Act of 1977 to transfer certain funds to the 
     Multiemployer Health Benefit Plan, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. POCAN (for himself, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Meeks, Mr. 
             Ellison, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Rush, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Higgins of New 
             York, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Beyer, Ms. Moore, Mr. Ted 
             Lieu of California, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. 
             Welch, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Schrader, Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. Wilson of Florida, 
             Ms. Clarke of New York, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Kind, 
             Ms. McCollum, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Payne, Ms. Castor of 
             Florida, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. McGovern, 
             Mr. Grothman, Ms. Judy Chu of California, and Mr. 
             Perlmutter):
       H.R. 1614. A bill to authorize borrowers of loans under the 
     William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program to modify the 
     interest rate of such loans to be equal to the interest rate 
     for such loans at the time of modification; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. RASKIN (for himself, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Brown of 
             Maryland, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Clay, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Cooper, Mr. Doggett, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Mr. Evans, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Michelle 
             Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Higgins of New York, 
             Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, 
             Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Kihuen, Ms. Lee, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. 
             McNerney, Ms. Norton, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. 
             Soto, and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 1615. A bill to amend the Federal Election Campaign 
     Act of 1971 to apply the ban on contributions and 
     expenditures by foreign nationals under such Act to foreign-
     controlled, foreign-influenced, and foreign-owned domestic 
     corporations, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     House Administration.
           By Mr. RATCLIFFE (for himself and Mr. Palmer):
       H.R. 1616. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to authorize the National Computer Forensics Institute, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Homeland Security, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. REED (for himself and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 1617. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to permit nurse practitioners and physician 
     assistants to satisfy the documentation requirement under the 
     Medicare program for coverage of certain shoes for 
     individuals with diabetes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RUIZ:
       H.R. 1618. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     clarify that caregivers for veterans with serious illnesses 
     are eligible for assistance and support services provided by 
     the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. RUIZ:
       H.R. 1619. A bill to authorize assistance and training to 
     increase maritime security and domain awareness of foreign 
     countries bordering the Persian Gulf, the Arabian Sea, or the 
     Mediterranean Sea in order to deter and counter illicit 
     smuggling and related maritime activity by Iran, including 
     illicit Iranian weapons shipments; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services, and in addition to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RUIZ:
       H.R. 1620. A bill to amend the Family and Medical Leave Act 
     of 1993 and title 5, United States Code, to permit leave to 
     care for an adult child, grandchild, or grandparent who has a 
     serious health condition, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to 
     the Committees on Oversight and Government Reform, and House 
     Administration, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. RUIZ:
       H.R. 1621. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to distribute additional information to Medicare 
     beneficiaries to prevent health care fraud, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RUIZ (for himself, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Conyers, 
             Mr. Walz, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Takano, Mr. 
             Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Price of North Carolina, and Mr. 
             Stewart):
       H.R. 1622. A bill to provide for a lifetime National 
     Recreational Pass for any veteran with a service-connected 
     disability, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. RUSSELL:
       H.R. 1623. A bill to repeal the Advanced Technology 
     Vehicles Manufacturing Incentive Program; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia (for himself and Mr. Tiberi):
       H. Con. Res. 34. Concurrent resolution recognizing the 
     100th anniversary of the charitable contribution deduction; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CARTER of Georgia (for himself, Mrs. McMorris 
             Rodgers, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, 
             Ms. Sinema, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Arrington, Mr. Ted Lieu 
             of California, Ms. Moore, Mr. Jody B. Hice of 
             Georgia, Ms. Esty, and Ms. Tenney):
       H. Res. 206. A resolution recognizing Girl Scouts of the 
     United States of America on its 105th birthday and on the 
     100th anniversary of the Girl Scout Cookie Program; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. KEATING (for himself, Mr. Neal, Mr. Crowley, Mr. 
             Meeks, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. King 
             of New York, and Mr. Connolly):
       H. Res. 207. A resolution expressing the continued support 
     of the House of Representatives for the Good Friday Agreement 
     (the Belfast Agreement); to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. RUIZ (for himself, Ms. Lee, and Ms. Ros-
             Lehtinen):
       H. Res. 208. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of ``National Latino AIDS Awareness Day`` on October 15, 
     2017, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.

                          ____________________



