

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H398-H400]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       RUSSIA AND PRESIDENT PUTIN

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Ohio (Ms. Kaptur) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor today as co-chair and 
founding member of the Polish, Hungarian, and UkrainianHouse Caucuses.
  I am also a strong defender of NATO and of its purpose in linking the 
free nations of Europe and the United States throughthis historic, 
hard-won alliance and security treaty among Europe's sovereign nations 
that respect the rule of law and ourshared passion for liberty.
  Our Nation and NATO's members paid the ultimate price in the last 
century for our priceless gift of liberty. We won the coldwar, and our 
most treasured democratic values of life, liberty, freedom of assembly, 
press, and religion are under siege todayby a predatory and repressive 
Russia. Go no further than any major business in your district and ask 
them how many times theyare hacked daily by Russian predators--to get a 
sense of what is going on.
  My purpose this morning is to remind our citizenry of the continuing 
and major, real threat to our NATO alliance and to thedestabilization 
of Europe by Russia that necessitates our strengthening the alliance, 
not weakening it, to ward off VladimirPutin's expansionist dreams.
  I must say I am concerned by our President-elect's loose talk about 
Russia. His naive assumption that personal friendshipswith Russia's 
oligarchs--some of whom are active members of Russia's notorious 
mafia--can overcome strategic, expansionistimperatives that fill 
Vladimir Putin's mind are truly not in America's interest.
  So let's review some recent history.
  Domestically, Mr. Putin has suppressed the basic freedoms of the 
Russian people. His leadership has resulted in countlessinfringements 
of human rights violations and other actions that directly conflict 
with our foundational values in Westerndemocracies.
  Putin has an aggressive and very hostile foreign policy toward us--
toward the United States--and our top allies. Russia hasinvaded 
neighboring sovereign countries, including the Republics of Georgia and 
Ukraine. Russia has threatened and harassed U.S.military personnel and 
diplomats overseas, not in the last century, now, orchestrating an 
anti-American propaganda campaign--thelargest since World War II--both 
in our country and around the world; and it is conducting cyber 
warfare, as I speak, against ourcountry, our government, our interests, 
as well as European governments; against political institutes; against 
our think tanks;against our State voter data systems, as our 
intelligence services have just informed us; and against our cities and 
counties,journalists, and individuals.

[[Page H399]]

  Information about Putin's aggressive behavior is well-documented and 
is specifically highlighted in the intelligencebriefings that our 
President-elect began to receive when he secured the Republican Party 
nomination last year. Despite this,throughout his campaign and as 
President-elect, Mr. Trump continues to praise and support Putin. He 
has even taken the foreigndictator's side over those of the leaders of 
our country he was elected to represent.
  Here are examples:
  December 18, 2015: During an interview on ``Morning Joe,'' host Joe 
Scarborough asked Mr. Trump about Putin's allegedkilling of journalists 
and political opponents. Trump answered: ``He's running his country, 
and at least he's a leader. Unlikewhat we have in this country.''
  Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a list of dozens of journalists 
in Russia who have been murdered in cold bloodbecause they were 
reporting on corruption, on growing repression in that society--on what 
Russia was executing around theworld.

    A Partial List of Journalists Who Have Died in RepressiveRussia

       1. July 16, 2000: Igor Domnikov, an editor and reporter for 
     the independent Novaya Gazeta whocovered local government 
     corruption, died after being attacked. His assailants are 
     serving prison terms but the ex-governmentofficial who: 
     orchestrated the attack was not convicted.
       2. July 26, 2000: Sergey Novikov, the ownerof the 
     independent radio station Vesna, was shot in his apartment. 
     Novikov was a vocal critic of local government corruption 
     andreceived death threats prior to his murder. The case 
     remains unsolved.
       3. Sept. 21, 2000: RadioLiberty correspondent Iskandar 
     Khatloni died from an attack by an unknown assailant. 
     Khatloni, who was also a poet and formerBBC correspondent, 
     was covering human rights abuses in Chechnya. The case 
     remains unsolved.
       4. Oct. 3,2000: Sergey Ivanov, the director of the 
     independent and influential TV station Lada, was shot in his 
     apartment. The caseremains unsolved.
       5. Nov. 21, 2000: Cameraman Adam Tepsurgayev, who shot most 
     of Reuters' footage fromthe second Chechen conflict, was shot 
     dead in a Chechen village. The Russian government contends 
     that Chechen guerrillasmurdered Tepsurgayev, but local 
     residents were doubtful. The case remains unsolved.
       6. Feb. 3, 2001:Photographer Valery Kondalkov was killed 
     after the publication of photos he took of the private 
     mansions of urban elite in thecity of Armavir. The case 
     remains unsolved.
       7. Sept. 18, 2001: Eduard Markevich, the editor 
     andpublisher of a local newspaper, was shot in the back after 
     receiving threats and surviving a previous attack. 
     Markevichfrequently wrote about local corruption and die 
     suspected perpetrators of his murder are government 
     officials. The case remainsunsolved.
       8. March 9, 2002: Natalya Skryl, a local business reporter, 
     died from an attack. She wasplanning to publish an article on 
     the struggle for the control of a local metal plant. The case 
     remains unsolved.
       9. April 29, 2002: Valery Ivanov, editor of the independent 
     newspaper Tolyatinskoye Obozreniye, was shot eight timesin 
     the head. His newspaper is known for his coverage of local 
     organized crime, drug trafficking and corruption. The case 
     remainsunsolved.
       10. April 18, 2003: Dmitry Shvets, the deputy director of 
     the independent televisionstation TV-21, known for his 
     critical reporting on politicians, was shot dead outside the 
     station's offices. He had beeninvestigating a mayoral 
     candidate's links to organized crime. The case remains 
     unsolved.
       11. July 3,2003: Novaya Gazeta deputy editor Yuri 
     Shchekochikhin died from an acute allergic reaction while 
     those close to him believe hewas poisoned. Shchekochikhin was 
     working on a corruption case involving high-ranking 
     government officials and had receivedthreats. The government 
     has not opened an investigation and says there's no evidence 
     of foul play.
       12. July 3, 2003: Local television reporter Alikhan Guliyev 
     was shot in his apartment building. Guliyev had accused 
     aninfluential politician of campaign violations, and had 
     survived an attempt on his life in 2002. The case 
     remainsunsolved.
       13. Oct 9, 2003: A year after the murder of his predecessor 
     Valery Ivanov, TolyatinskoyeObozreniye editor Aleksei Sidorov 
     was stabbed by two unknown assailants after receiving 
     threats. Officials initially agreed hewas murdered in 
     retaliation for his investigative work, but the case remains 
     unsolved.
       14. July 9,2004: Forbes Russia founding editor Paul 
     Klebnikov was shot in Moscow in a contract killing. The 
     magazine had recently publisheda feature on Russia's richest 
     people, and Klebnikov himself had written books and articles 
     about business, crime and corruptionin Russia. A decade after 
     his death, the case remains unsolved, prompting Secretary of 
     State John Kerry to urge Russia to bringthe perpetrators to 
     justice.
       15. May 21, 2005: Cameraman Pavel Makeev, while reporting 
     on illegaldrag racing, was found dead on the side of a road. 
     Though his death was initially classified as a traffic 
     accident, Makeev'scolleagues say his death was related to his 
     work. The case has been reopened but remains unsolved.
       16. June 28, 2005: Magomedzagid Varisov, who wrote critical 
     political columns for the weekly Novoye Delo, was shot in 
     hiscar by unknown assailants with machine guns in Dagestan. 
     Varisov had received numerous threats through years. Three 
     suspectswere killed in October 2005, and the unsolved case 
     was closed.
       17. Jan. 8, 2006: Reporter VagifKochetkov, who wrote for 
     the newspapers Trud and Tulskii Molodoi Kommunar, died from 
     an attack. Officials labeled his death theresult of a 
     robbery, though only work-related documents and his cellphone 
     were taken, while his wallet and fur coat were not. Alocal 
     businessman was charged with the attack but later said he was 
     coerced into confessing.
       18. Oct. 7, 2006: Renowned journalist and human rights 
     activist Anna Politkovskaya was shot in herapartment after 
     receiving, and narrowingly escaping, numerous death threats. 
     The five men hired to kill her were convicted andsentenced 
     seven years later, but whoever ordered the murder (believed 
     to be $150,000 contract) remains unknown.
       19. Nov. 30, 2006: Prominent investigative journalist 
     Maksim Maksimov was declared dead. He disappeared two 
     yearsearlier while investigating local corruption in St. 
     Petersburg as well as several unsolved murders. The case 
     remainsunsolved.
       20. March 2, 2007: Defense correspondent Ivan Safronov died 
     from mysteriously falling froma fifth-floor window while 
     investigating the sale of Russian arms to Syria and Iran. 
     Safronov embarrassed military officialswith reports on 
     problems with Russia's nuclear program. His death has been 
     officially ruled a suicide, but his colleagues andfriends say 
     he had no reason to kill himself.
       21. Aug. 31, 2008: Magomed Yevloyev, owner of 
     theindependent news site Ingushetia, was shot while in police 
     custody. Officials had been attempting to close down 
     Ingushetia forextremism; the site had covered corruption, 
     human rights abuses, unsolved murders, and voting fraud in 
     the 2008 presidentialelection. Yevloyev was detained as a 
     witness in investigation of a local explosion, and police say 
     the shooting was anaccident.
       22. Sept. 2, 2008: Television editor Telman (Abdulla) 
     Alishayev was shot by unknownassailants in Dagestan. 
     Alishayev produced an anti-radical Islam documentary two 
     years earlier and received death threats fromradical groups.
       23. Jan. 19, 2009: Anastasia Baburova, a freelancer for the 
     opposition newspaperNovaya Gazeta, was shot by 
     ultranationalists in a double murder. Baburova had covered 
     the rise of neo-Nazism and race-motivatedcrimes in Moscow. 
     Her murderers, members of a neo-Nazi group, have been 
     sentenced.
       24. March 30,2009: Layout designer Sergei Protazanov died 
     after an attack by unknown assailants. Protazanov was part of 
     the editorial staffof Grazhdanskoe sogalsie, a newspaper 
     known for its critical coverage of the ruling party of 
     Russia. The case remainsunsolved.
       25. July 15, 2009: The fifth Novaya Gazeta journalist 
     murdered since 2000, NatalyaEstemirova was kidnapped and shot 
     execution-style in Chechnya. Her colleagues believe that 
     Chechen officials ordered theKremlin-backed assassination, as 
     Estemirova had reported on human rights violations committed 
     by authorities in the region. Theofficial investigation 
     pinned the murder on a Chechen rebel who was killed by an air 
     strike, but her colleagues and human rightsactivists believe 
     this is a cover-up.
       26. Aug. 11, 2009: Abdulmalik Akhmedilov, an editor for 
     theindependent news website Hakikat and editor-in-chief of 
     the political monthly Sogratl, was shot in his car in 
     Dagestan.Akhmedilov was critical of government efforts to 
     curb religious and political freedom and inaction in 
     investigatingassassinations. The case remains unsolved.
       27. Dec. 15, 2011: Independent newspaper founderGadzhimurad 
     Kamalov was shot outside his office in Dagestan. His 
     newspaper Chernovik was known for its investigations 
     ingovernment corruption, police abuse and Islamic extremism, 
     and his name appeared on an anonymous hit list.
       28. Dec. 5, 2012: News anchor Kazbek Gekkiyev, who covered 
     social issues, was shot in the head while returning home 
     fromwork. Several reporters at his state-controlled station, 
     VGTRK, had received threats allegedly from Islamist 
     separatistfighters.
       29. April 8, 2013: Mikhail Beketov, founding editor of the 
     Khimiki, died after a 2008attack by unknown assailants that 
     left him severely brain-damaged, amputated and unable to 
     speak. Beketov had covered governmentcorruption and the 
     planned destruction of the Khimki forest to make way for a 
     planned toll road. In retaliation for hisreporting, his car 
     had been set on fire and his dog left dead on his doorstep. 
     He never fully recovered from the attack and diedfive years 
     later in the hospital.
       30. May 18, 2013: Nikolai Potapov, a former government 
     official andfounding editor of the local Selsovet newspaper, 
     was shot in the Stavropol region. Selsovet was known for its 
     coverage ofgovernment corruption.
       31. July 9, 2013: Akhmednabi Akhmednabiye, deputy editor of 
     the independentnewspaper Novoye Delo, was shot

[[Page H400]]

     dead outside his house in Dagestan. He covered government 
     corruption, abductions, policeabuse and torture and had 
     received numerous threats for his work. His name appeared on 
     an anonymous hit list.
       32. Dec. 4, 2013: Arkady Lander, editor of the opposition 
     newspaper Mestnaya, died after an 2010 attack by 
     unknownassailants in Sochi. He underwent operations and 
     hospitalizations for three years after his attack, which left 
     him amputated andwith a fractured skull. Lander had covered 
     local elections and distributed his newspaper free of charge. 
     The statute oflimitations ran out on his case.
       33. Aug. 1, 2014: The body of independent journalist and 
     civilactivist Timur Kuashev was discovered in the woods after 
     he disappeared a day earlier. Kuashev was threatened by 
     police afterreporting on civil liberty and human rights 
     violations by security forces
  Ms. KAPTUR. The interview with Mr. Scarborough took place the day 
after Mr. Putin praised and propagandized Mr. Trump as``bright and 
talented'' and the ``absolute leader of the Presidential race.'' That 
was about a year before our election. Monthslater, the President-elect 
asked the Russian Federation to hack Hillary Clinton's email. How about 
that by our President-elect?
  September 8, 2016: At NBC's Commander-in-Chief Forum, Mr. Trump 
praised Putin by saying:

       IfPutin says great things about me, I'm going to say great 
     things about him . . . I've already said he is very much of a 
     leader.The man has very strong control over his country.

  He is right about that. If you speak against Putin, you can be 
murdered in Russia.
  America, pay attention.

                          ____________________



