

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 43 (Monday, March 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 43 (Monday, March 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1778-S1780]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 34

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the names of the Senator from Kentucky 
(Mr. Paul), the Senator from Wyoming (Mr. Enzi) and the Senator from 
Florida (Mr. Rubio) were added as cosponsors of S. 34, a bill to amend 
chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, to provide for the en bloc 
consideration in resolutions of disapproval for ``midnight rules'', and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 108

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 108, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on 
medical devices.


                                 S. 109

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 109, a bill 
to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for coverage 
under the Medicare program of pharmacist services.


                                 S. 155

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 155, a bill to amend the 
National Labor Relations Act to permit employers to pay higher wages to 
their employees.


                                 S. 170

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. Schumer) and the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 170, a bill to provide for nonpreemption of measures 
by State and local governments to divest from entities that engage in 
commerce-related or investment-related boycott, divestment, or 
sanctions activities targeting Israel, and for other purposes.

[[Page S1779]]

  



                                 S. 198

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 198, a bill to require 
continued and enhanced annual reporting to Congress in the Annual 
Report on International Religious Freedom on anti-Semitic incidents in 
Europe, the safety and security of European Jewish communities, and the 
efforts of the United States to partner with European governments, the 
European Union, and civil society groups, to combat anti-Semitism, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 200

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 200, a bill to prohibit 
the conduct of a first-use nuclear strike absent a declaration of war 
by Congress.


                                 S. 229

  At the request of Mr. Heinrich, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 229, a bill to 
provide for the confidentiality of information submitted in requests 
for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Program, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. Murray) and the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 236, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic beverages.


                                 S. 242

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 242, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to permit veterans to grant access to their 
records in the databases of the Veterans Benefits Administration to 
certain designated congressional employees, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 276

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 276, a bill to amend title 28, 
United States Code, to divide the ninth judicial circuit of the United 
States into 2 circuits, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 339

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 339, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to repeal the requirement for reduction of 
survivor annuities under the Survivor Benefit Plan by veterans' 
dependency and indemnity compensation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 366

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 366, a bill to require 
the Federal financial institutions regulatory agencies to take risk 
profiles and business models of institutions into account when taking 
regulatory actions, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to amend the 
Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving through the mail 
shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and to 
require the provision of advance electronic information on shipments of 
mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and for other purposes.


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 382, a bill to require the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services to develop a voluntary registry to collect data on 
cancer incidence among firefighters.


                                 S. 387

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 387, a bill to amend the 
Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 to subject the Bureau of 
Consumer Financial Protection to the regular appropriations process, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. 445, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure more timely access to 
home health services for Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare 
program.


                                 S. 459

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Mr. Johnson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 459, a bill to designate 
the area between the intersections of Wisconsin Avenue, Northwest and 
Davis Street, Northwest and Wisconsin Avenue, Northwest and Edmunds 
Street, Northwest in Washington, District of Columbia, as ``Boris 
Nemtsov Plaza'', and for other purposes.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under 
Medicare for colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether 
therapeutic intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 484

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 484, a bill to amend the 
Investment Company Act of 1940 to terminate an exemption for companies 
located in Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and any other possession of 
the United States.


                                 S. 493

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 493, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to provide for the removal or 
demotion of employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs based on 
performance or misconduct, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 512

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. Flake) was added as a cosponsor of S. 512, a bill to modernize the 
regulation of nuclear energy.


                                 S. 528

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 528, a bill to amend the Family 
and Medical Leave Act of 1993 to provide leave because of the death of 
a son or daughter.


                                 S. 548

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Portman) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 548, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to reform the low-income housing credit, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 563

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 563, a bill to amend the 
Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 to require that certain buildings 
and personal property be covered by flood insurance, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 568

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the names of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed), the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey), and the 
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added as cosponsors of S. 
568, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to count a 
period of receipt of outpatient observation services in a hospital 
toward satisfying the 3-day inpatient hospital requirement for coverage 
of skilled nursing facility services under Medicare.


                                 S. 574

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 574, a bill 
to restrict the use of funds for the long-range standoff weapon until 
the Secretary of Defense completes a Nuclear Posture Review that 
includes an assessment of the capabilities and effects of the use of 
the long-range standoff weapon, and for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 27

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) and the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Moran) were added as 
cosponsors of S.J. Res. 27, a joint resolution disapproving the rule 
submitted by the

[[Page S1780]]

Department of Labor relating to ``Clarification of Employer's 
Continuing Obligation to Make and Maintain an Accurate Record of Each 
Recordable Injury and Illness''.


                              S.J. RES. 34

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Kentucky 
(Mr. McConnell) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 34, a joint 
resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of 
title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Federal 
Communications Commission relating to ``Protecting the Privacy of 
Customers of Broadband and Other Telecommunications Services''.


                             S. CON. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. Collins) and the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Con. Res. 6, a concurrent resolution supporting the 
Local Radio Freedom Act.


                             S. CON. RES. 7

  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the names of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) and the Senator from Missouri (Mr. Blunt) were 
added as cosponsors of S. Con. Res. 7, a concurrent resolution 
expressing the sense of Congress that tax-exempt fraternal benefit 
societies have historically provided and continue to provide critical 
benefits to the people and communities of the United States.


                               S. RES. 76

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the names of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) and the Senator from West Virginia (Mr. Manchin) were 
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 76, a resolution expressing support for 
the designation of March 21, 2017, as ``National Rosie the Riveter 
Day''.


                               S. RES. 81

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi), the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Gardner), and the Senator 
from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 81, a 
resolution recognizing the 196th anniversary of the independence of 
Greece and celebrating democracy in Greece and the United States.

                          ____________________



