

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 53 (Monday, March 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 53 (Monday, March 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1996-S1997]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 27

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 27, a bill to establish an 
independent commission to examine and report on the facts regarding the 
extent of Russian official and unofficial cyber operations and other 
attempts to interfere in the 2016 United States national election, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 175

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 175, a bill to amend the 
Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to transfer certain 
funds to the Multiemployer Health Benefit Plan and the 1974 United Mine 
Workers of America Pension Plan, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 198

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 198, a bill to require 
continued and enhanced annual reporting to Congress in the Annual 
Report on International Religious Freedom on anti-Semitic incidents in 
Europe, the safety and security of European Jewish communities, and the 
efforts of the United States to partner with European governments, the 
European Union, and civil society groups, to combat anti-Semitism, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) and the Senator from Alaska (Ms. Murkowski) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 236, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic beverages.


                                 S. 261

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) and the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. Ernst) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 261, a bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
Cosmetic Act to improve and clarify certain disclosure requirements for 
restaurants and similar retail food establishments, and to amend the 
authority to bring proceedings under section 403A.


                                 S. 292

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 292, a bill to 
maximize discovery, and accelerate development and availability, of 
promising childhood cancer treatments, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 324, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the provision of adult 
day health care services for veterans.


                                 S. 334

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 334, a bill to 
clarify that a State has the sole authority to regulate hydraulic 
fracturing on Federal land within the boundaries of the State.


                                 S. 339

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 339, a bill to 
amend title 10, United States Code, to repeal the requirement for 
reduction of survivor annuities under the Survivor Benefit Plan by 
veterans' dependency and indemnity compensation, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 357

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
California (Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 357, a bill to 
direct the Secretary of the Interior to convey certain public lands in 
San Bernardino County, California, to the San Bernardino Valley Water 
Conservation District, and to accept in return certain exchanged non-
public lands, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 364

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 364, a bill to amend the 
Food Security Act of 1985 to exempt certain recipients of Department of 
Agriculture conservation assistance from certain reporting 
requirements, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill 
to amend the Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving 
through the mail shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection and to require the provision of advance electronic 
information on shipments of mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 375

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) was added as a cosponsor of S. 375, a bill to amend the 
Endangered Species Act of 1973 to establish a procedure for approval of 
certain settlements.


                                 S. 376

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi) was added as a cosponsor of S. 376, a bill to amend the 
Endangered Species Act of 1973 to require publication on the Internet 
of the basis for determinations that species are endangered species or 
threatened species, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 381

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 381, a bill to repeal 
the Act entitled ``An Act to confer jurisdiction on the State of Iowa 
over offenses committed by or against Indians on the Sac and Fox Indian 
Reservation''.


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 382, a bill to 
require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop a 
voluntary registry to collect data on cancer incidence among 
firefighters.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 407, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the 
railroad track maintenance credit.


                                 S. 415

  At the request of Ms. Cortez Masto, the name of the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 415, a bill to 
nullify the effect of the recent Executive order that makes the vast 
majority of unauthorized individuals priorities for removal and aims to 
withhold critical Federal funding to sanctuary cities.


                                 S. 422

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 422, a bill 
to amend title 38, United States Code, to clarify presumptions relating 
to the exposure of certain veterans who served in the vicinity of the 
Republic of Vietnam, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 447

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 447, a bill to 
require reporting on acts of certain foreign countries on Holocaust era 
assets and related issues.
  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 447, supra.


                                 S. 588

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) was added as a cosponsor of S. 588, a bill to 
require the Securities and Exchange Commission to clarify what 
constitutes a general solicitation under the Federal securities laws, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 602

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor

[[Page S1997]]

of S. 602, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to include 
automated fire sprinkler system retrofits as section 179 property and 
classify certain automated fire sprinkler system retrofits as 15-year 
property for purposes of depreciation.


                                 S. 605

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 605, a bill to amend the Forest 
and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 and the Federal 
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 to discourage litigation against 
the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management relating to land 
management projects.


                                 S. 655

  At the request of Mr. Risch, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 655, a bill to exempt certain 16- 
and 17-year-old individuals employed in logging operations from child 
labor laws.


                                 S. 672

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr. 
Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 672, a bill to require a report 
on designation of North Korea as a state sponsor of terrorism, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 681

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. 681, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to improve the benefits and services 
provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs to women veterans, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 692

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 692, a bill to provide for 
integrated plan permits, to establish an Office of the Municipal 
Ombudsman, to promote green infrastructure, and to require the revision 
of financial capability guidance.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson), the Senator from Florida (Mr. Rubio), the Senator from 
New Jersey (Mr. Menendez), the Senator from Maine (Ms. Collins) and the 
Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) were added as cosponsors of 
S. 720, a bill to amend the Export Administration Act of 1979 to 
include in the prohibitions on boycotts against allies of the United 
States boycotts fostered by international governmental organizations 
against Israel and to direct the Export-Import Bank of the United 
States to oppose boycotts against Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 721

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. 721, a bill to require 
the disclosure of certain visitor access records.


                              S.J. RES. 2

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Montana (Mr. 
Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 2, a joint resolution 
proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States 
relative to limiting the number of terms that a Member of Congress may 
serve.


                               S. RES. 93

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 93, a 
resolution congratulating the European Union on the 60th anniversary of 
the signing of the Treaty of Rome, which established the European 
Economic Community and laid the foundation for decades of European 
peace and prosperity.

                          ____________________



