

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 20 (Monday, February 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S746]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 26

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 26, a bill to amend the 
Ethics in Government Act of 1978 to require the disclosure of certain 
tax returns by Presidents and certain candidates for the office of the 
President, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 120

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 120, a bill to provide for the 
creation of the Missing Armed Forces Personnel Records Collection at 
the National Archives, to require the expeditious public transmission 
to the Archivist and public disclosure of Missing Armed Forces 
Personnel records, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 223

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 223, a bill to provide 
immunity from suit for certain individuals who disclose potential 
examples of financial exploitation of senior citizens, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 224

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 224, a bill to amend 
title 18, United States Code, to prohibit taking minors across State 
lines in circumvention of laws requiring the involvement of parents in 
abortion decisions.


                                 S. 240

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 240, a bill to 
nullify the effect of the recent executive order that temporarily 
restricted individuals from certain countries from entering the United 
States.


                                 S. 247

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 247, a bill 
to provide an incentive for businesses to bring jobs back to America.


                                 S. 272

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 272, a bill to enhance the 
security operations of the Transportation Security Administration and 
the stability of the transportation security workforce by applying a 
unified personnel system under title 5, United States Code, to 
employees of the Transportation Security Administration who are 
responsible for screening passengers and property, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 274

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 274, a bill to 
nullify the effect of the recent executive order that temporarily 
restricted individuals from certain countries from entering the United 
States.


                                 S. 291

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) and the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 291, a bill to amend the National 
Security Act of 1947 to modify the requirements for membership in the 
National Security Council and cabinet-level policy forum, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 301

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 301, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to prohibit governmental discrimination 
against providers of health services that are not involved in abortion.


                              S.J. RES. 1

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 1, a joint 
resolution approving the location of a memorial to commemorate and 
honor the members of the Armed Forces who served on active duty in 
support of Operation Desert Storm or Operation Desert Shield.


                              S.J. RES. 2

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 2, a joint 
resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United 
States relative to limiting the number of terms that a Member of 
Congress may serve.


                              S.J. RES. 19

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 19, a joint 
resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of 
title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Bureau of 
Consumer Financial Protection relating to prepaid accounts under the 
Electronic Fund Transfer Act and the Truth in Lending Act.


                             S. CON. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 6, a 
concurrent resolution supporting the Local Radio Freedom Act.


                               S. RES. 38

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 38, a resolution 
recognizing January 30, 2017, as ``Fred Korematsu Day of Civil 
Liberties and the Constitution''.

                          ____________________



