

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 27 (Wednesday, February 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 27 (Wednesday, February 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1217-S1218]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Mr. Cotton, Mr. Nelson, 
             and Ms. Murkowski):
       S. 379. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security Act 
     to eliminate the five month waiting period for disability 
     insurance benefits under such title for individuals with 
     amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Donnelly, 
             Mr. Reed, Mrs. Feinstein, and Mr. Brown):
       S. 380. A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
     to require the disclosure of the total number of the domestic 
     and foreign employees of a company, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mrs. Ernst, and Mr. 
             Leahy):
       S. 381. A bill to repeal the Act entitled ``An Act to 
     confer jurisdiction on the State of Iowa over offenses 
     committed by or against Indians on the Sac and Fox Indian 
     Reservation''; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Ms. Murkowski, Mr. Rubio, 
             Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Markey, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. 
             Daines, Mr. Booker, Mr. Franken, Mr. Schumer, Mr. 
             McCain, Mrs. Gillibrand, and Mr. Tester):
       S. 382. A bill to require the Secretary of Health and Human 
     Services to develop a voluntary registry to collect data on 
     cancer incidence among firefighters; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr. Warner, Mrs. Shaheen, 
             Mr. Portman, and Mr. Merkley):
       S. 383. A bill to coordinate the provision of energy 
     retrofitting assistance to schools; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.

[[Page S1218]]

  

           By Mr. BLUNT (for himself, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Schumer, and 
             Mrs. Gillibrand):
       S. 384. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to permanently extend the new markets tax credit, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Coons, 
             Mr. Wicker, Mr. Franken, Ms. Collins, Mr. Manchin, 
             Mr. Bennet, Mr. Warner, Ms. Heitkamp, and Mr. 
             Heller):
       S. 385. A bill to promote energy savings in residential 
     buildings and industry, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself, Mrs. Fischer, Mr. Cruz, 
             and Mr. Inhofe):
       S. 386. A bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to 
     provide for transparency of payments made from the Judgment 
     Fund; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. PERDUE (for himself, Mr. Daines, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. 
             Enzi, Mr. Barrasso, Mr. Tillis, Mr. Paul, Mr. 
             Isakson, Mr. Lee, Mrs. Ernst, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Johnson, 
             Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Flake, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Hoeven, and 
             Mr. Cruz):
       S. 387. A bill to amend the Consumer Financial Protection 
     Act of 2010 to subject the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
     Protection to the regular appropriations process, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. BROWN:
       S. 388. A bill for the relief of Maha Dakar; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr. Gardner):
       S. 389. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to ensure that kombucha is exempt from any excise taxes and 
     regulations imposed on alcoholic beverages; to the Committee 
     on Finance.
           By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself and Mr. Udall):
       S. 390. A bill to withdraw certain Bureau of Land 
     Management land from mineral development; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and Mr. Schumer):
       S. 391. A bill to establish the African Burial Ground 
     International Memorial Museum and Educational Center in New 
     York, New York, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mr. Warner, Mr. Booker, and 
             Mr. Blunt):
       S. 392. A bill to establish the 400 years of African-
     American History Commission, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. SCOTT (for himself and Mr. Booker):
       S. 393. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow employers a credit against income tax for employees 
     who participate in qualified apprenticeship programs; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. ROUNDS (for himself, Mr. Thune, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. 
             Crapo, Mr. Lankford, Mr. Rubio, and Mr. Graham):
       S. 394. A bill to amend chapter 44 of title 18, United 
     States Code, to provide that a member of the Armed Forces and 
     the spouse of that member shall have the same rights 
     regarding the receipt of firearms at the location of any duty 
     station of the member; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. WYDEN:
       S. 395. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     specify the circumstances in which a person may acquire 
     geolocation information and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. NELSON (for himself, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Moran, and 
             Mr. Manchin):
       S. 396. A bill to make technical amendments to certain 
     marine fish conservation statutes, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Mr. Warner, Mr. Alexander, 
             Mr. Brown, Mr. Shelby, and Mr. Kaine):
       S. 397. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to ensure fairness in Medicare hospital payments by 
     establishing a floor for the area wage index applied with 
     respect to certain hospitals; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. NELSON:
       S. 398. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Army to 
     provide for modification of certain Federal water resources 
     development projects on the Apalachicola, Chattahoochee, and 
     Flint Rivers, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. COONS (for himself, Ms. Collins, and Mr. 
             Daines):
       S. 399. A bill to establish the United States Chief 
     Manufacturing Officer in the Executive Office of the 
     President with the responsibility of developing a national 
     manufacturing strategy to revitalize the manufacturing 
     sector, spur economic growth, and expand United States 
     competitiveness, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. CASEY:
       S. 400. A bill to establish the Susquehanna National 
     Heritage Area in the State of Pennsylvania, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Cardin, 
             and Mr. Van Hollen):
       S. 401. A bill to establish the Appalachian Forest National 
     Heritage Area, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. VAN HOLLEN (for himself and Mr. Cardin):
       S. 402. A bill to direct the Joint Committee on the Library 
     to enter into an agreement with the Harriet Tubman Statue 
     Commission of the State of Maryland for the acceptance of a 
     statue of Harriet Tubman for display in a prominent location 
     in the United States Capitol; to the Committee on Rules and 
     Administration.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 403. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to improve access to health care through expanded health 
     savings accounts, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself and Mr. Bennet):
       S. 404. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to improve the process for inspections of device 
     establishments for granting export certifications; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mr. Warner, Mr. Cardin, and 
             Mr. Van Hollen):
       S.J. Res. 22. A joint resolution granting the consent and 
     approval of Congress to the Commonwealth of Virginia, the 
     State of Maryland, and the District of Columbia to enter into 
     a compact relating to the establishment of the Washington 
     Metrorail Safety Commission; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.

                          ____________________



