

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 11 (Friday, January 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 11 (Friday, January 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S359-S360]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                STATE OF THE UNION ESSAY CONTEST WINNERS

 Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, since 2010, I havesponsored a 
State of the Union essay contest for Vermont students. The contest, now 
in its 7th year, is an opportunity forVermont's high school students to 
articulate what issues they would prioritize if they were President of 
the United States. Apanel of Vermont teachers reviewed all of the 
essays submitted and selected the top 20.
  I would like to congratulate eachand every finalist and to 
specifically acknowledge Quinn Nelson Mayo as this year's winner of the 
contest. I would also like torecognize Musa Mayange for placing second 
and A.J. DeFelice for placing third. I ask to have printed in the 
Record thewinning essays.
  The material follows:


        quinn nelson mayo, st. johnsbury academy junior (winner)

       The United States was founded onseveral core values; the 
     most important, as most of us agree, is freedom. This shared 
     belief has been the foundation of ourcountry for over 200 
     years. And for centuries, media has been a major outlet for 
     people to exercise this freedom because itallows them to 
     share their opinions with the masses. The idea of free speech 
     took on a different meaning with the development ofthe 
     internet in the late 80s. Since then, this liberty has grown 
     exponentially. Now people have the ability to share 
     theirthoughts with a much larger audience. It is possible to 
     do this anonymously and without fear of consequence. The 
     internet is anincredible asset which has helped with 
     globalization and the spread of information. However, this 
     form of media does have itsdrawbacks. The leading issue is 
     that it enables the spread of false information. So, while 
     the internet embodies our nation'score value of freedom, it 
     can also be detrimental to another vital aspect of our 
     society: educated and well informedcitizens.
       Regardless of one's political views, we can all agree that 
     2016 has been a tumultuous year for politics, here inthe 
     United States and across the globe. The 2016 presidential 
     campaign was a dramatic affair, and just the opening act to 
     one ofthe most high-stakes elections in our country's 
     history. The actions and rhetoric of the president-elect have 
     inspired a greatpolitical shift, as well as a burgeoning 
     sense of xenophobia and hatred throughout the country. During 
     times such as these, itis important to focus on what we can 
     do to create a better future. Much of the hate directed 
     towards certain groups of people isdue to ignorance and can 
     be traced back to stereotypes perpetrated by unreliable media 
     sources. Forcing media sites todrastically increase their 
     censorship would rightfully anger their users, on the grounds 
     that it restricts their constitutionalright to free speech. 
     Therefore, the most plausible and effective solution to the 
     problem of misinformation is to educatepeople.
       As of this year, 78% of the United States population has a 
     social media profile (Statista). Facebook and Twitter 
     havebillions of users across the world. It is imperative that 
     we use such sites with care. The recent controversies over 
     fake newshave made the influence of the media on politics 
     increasingly apparent. The rumor now known as ``Pizzagate'' 
     is a prime exampleof a fake news story with tremendous 
     influence. Millions of people believed that Hillary Clinton 
     was involved in a child-prostitution ring run out of a pizza 
     parlor. This is because, for a vast number of people, social 
     media and biased news sourcesare their only ways of acquiring 
     information. In fact, it is estimated that 62% of American 
     adults use social media at leastoccasionally as a news source 
     (Pew Research Center). However, many blindly make the 
     assumption that it is accurate. Whenhundreds of thousands of 
     people are susceptible to hate-driven fake news, it can have 
     a huge impact on our democracy.
       This iswhy I propose the incorporation of media literacy as 
     a core subject in all public schools. Public schools educate 
     the majorityof our nation's children. Which is why, by 
     teaching America's youth how to approach sources impartially 
     and critically, we canfix this problem of misinformation. 
     Integrating media literacy as a required course at elementary 
     and high-school levels is aninvestment in our future 
     generations.


        musa mayange, winooski high school senior (secondplace)

       Twelve years and still no change. After fleeing from a 
     civil war in Somalia in 1992, my parentstook refuge at a 
     refugee camp in Kakuma, Kenya. After 12 years of struggle, in 
     2004 we flew from the National Airport of Kenyato J.F.K. 
     International Airport in New York thinking our lives were 
     saved. Finally here, the land of the free and the home ofthe 
     brave. One of the only places on earth where you can taste 
     opportunity and smell a second chance. At the age of 17, I 
     cansee it now. America's resistance to change.
       Racism exists in America. Surveys reveal that whites apply 
     stereotypical thinkingabout blacks, considering them lazy and 
     unintelligent. What are we going to do about these attitudes 
     towards persons ofcolor?
       The American National Election Studies asked voters to rank 
     blacks and whites from hardworking to lazy, fromintelligent 
     to unintelligent. In 2012, 62 percent of whites gave blacks a 
     lower score in at least one area. In 2008, 45 percentof 
     whites expressed negative feelings about black stereotypes. 
     (Milbank, Washington Post)
       For a while, we thought that theissue of racism was over 
     and that our nation was going to move forward and ``leave the 
     past in the past.'' It almost had mefooled because we live in 
     Vermont and we sometimes can be isolated from world issues. 
     But racism is still here. When everyonethought that it was no 
     longer ``relevant,'' it's still alive.
       As a young African-American immigrant, how can I wrap my 
     headaround this? As Vermonters how can we annihilate racism 
     and get our community to be accepting of all races, cultures, 
     and ethnicbackgrounds?
       Ta-Nehisi Coates addresses the disadvantages of living with 
     black skin in Between the World And Me. Coates says``. . . 
     today, when 8% of the world's prisoners are black men, our 
     race has been refinanced to the Dream of being white. 
     Blacklife is cheap, but in America, black bodies are a 
     natural resource of incomparable value.'' Black people are 
     born with adisadvantage. We are more likely to go jail than 
     white people. The Center for American Progress says, ``In the 
     United States,black people account for 60 percent of those 
     imprisoned. The prison population grew by 700 percent from 
     1970 to 2005, a ratethat is outpacing crime and population 
     rates.
       Black people make up 17% of the United States population 
     yet more of us are injail. A black man is twice as likely to 
     go to jail than a white man, even if they did the same crime.
       Racism was born whenhumans identified skin color as a 
     positive or negative factor. If each of us could accept that 
     we are all humans, we come fromdifferent places, and have 
     different interests, we could accept racial differences, but 
     not let them divide us. We will nevermove forward if we don't 
     work together side by side and knock down obstacles.


        aj defelice,hartford high school freshman (third place)

       The United States is one of the greatest countries onEarth, 
     prized for its natural beauty, economic opportunities, and 
     democratic principles. However, many challenges face 
     ournation. Among the most pressing issues are climate change, 
     immigration, and income inequality.
       Perhaps the most dauntingproblem we face is climate change, 
     and the crucial role our country plays in it. Although 
     President Obama recently signed theParis Agreement to limit 
     greenhouse gas emissions, much must still be done to combat 
     this issue. We can begin by puttingunemployed or low-income 
     Americans to work--manufacturing, transporting, and 
     installing renewable energy products--such as solarpanels, 
     wind turbines, and more. This would produce a similar effect 
     as the New Deal put into place by President Franklin 
     D.Roosevelt to combat the negative effects of the Great 
     Depression. Additionally, a carbon tax should be established 
     nationally,to lower emissions, and encourage the usage of 
     renewable energy. A carbon tax would also allow for tax 
     reductions in otherareas, and combined with employing 
     Americans to transition to widespread renewable energy, would 
     create economic growth, whilesimultaneously reducing our 
     carbon footprint.
       Another controversial issue which troubles our nation is 
     immigration. TheUnited States is a country built on the backs 
     of immigrants, and to deny a path to citizenship to millions 
     who long only for ahigher quality of life is unpatriotic. We 
     must stop dehumanizing these people and see them only for who 
     they are--people.Immigrants strengthen our economy, whether 
     it be as producers, consumers, or developers. To deny them 
     access to citizenship inour nation would be depriving 
     ourselves of economic growth and cultural diversity. Economic 
     and cultural change that would onlystrengthen American 
     society.
       Income inequality is another issue which plagues our nation 
     today. According to countless yearsof research, income 
     inequality has a direct correlation on social and health 
     issues. A study conducted by the University ofWisconsin found 
     that people who reside in more financially unequal 
     communities are more likely to die before the age of 75. 
     Asnational income inequality decreases, so do social and 
     health problems. This decline can be seen in Scandinavian 
     countries,where having a more equal gross domestic product 
     per capita results in a higher quality of life. To make this 
     possible for theUnited States, corporations must be regulated 
     and held accountable by lawmakers to be sure that the 
     American people arereceiving the representation they deserve. 
     As citizens, we must be responsible in electing officials who 
     will place the needs ofthe greater population

[[Page S360]]

     above the interests of wealthy corporate executives.
       Our nation is at a turning point in itshistory, and the 
     choices we make today will have lasting effects on future 
     generations.
       The United States of America willremain a strong, 
     respected, and prosperous nation if we are able to look past 
     our disagreements and focus on making progressthrough 
     compromise. We must act wisely, and keep our eyes on what is 
     most important--the liberty we treasure as our 
     nation'scrowning promise.

                          ____________________



