

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S47-S48]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE

  At 12:04 p.m., a message from the House of Representatives, delivered 
by Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, announcedthat the House has 
passed the following bills, in which it requests the concurrence of the 
Senate:

       H.R. 27. An act to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to retain a copy 
     ofany reprimand or admonishment received by an employee of 
     the Department in the permanent record of the employee.
       H.R. 28. An act to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to adopt 
     andimplement a standard identification protocol for use in 
     the tracking and procurement of biological

[[Page S48]]

     implants by theDepartment of Veterans Affairs, and for other 
     purposes.

  The message also announced that the House has agreed to the following 
concurrent resolutions, withoutamendment:

       S. Con. Res. 1. Concurrent resolution extending the life of 
     the Joint CongressionalCommittee on Inaugural Ceremonies.
       S. Con. Res. 2. Concurrent resolution to provide for the 
     countingon January 6, 2017, of the electoral votes for 
     President and Vice President of the United States.

  The message further announced that the House has agreed to the 
following concurrent resolution, in which it requests theconcurrence of 
the Senate:

       H. Con. Res. 1. Concurrent resolution regarding consent to 
     assembleoutside the seat of government.

  The message also announced that the House has agreed to H. Res. 1, 
resolving that Karen L. Haas of the State of Maryland,be, and is 
hereby, chosen Clerk of the House of Representatives; that Paul D. 
Irving of the State of Florida be, and is hereby,chosen Sergeant-at-
Arms of the House of Representatives; that Philip George Kiko of the 
State of Ohio be, and is hereby, chosenChief Administrative Officer of 
the House of Representatives; and that Father Patrick J. Conroy of the 
State of Oregon be, andis hereby, chosen Chaplain of the House of 
Representatives.
  The message further announced that the House has agreed to H. Res. 2, 
resolving that the Senate be informed that a quorum ofthe House of 
Representatives has assembled; that Paul D. Ryan, a Representative of 
the State of Wisconsin, has been electedSpeaker; and that Karen L. 
Haas, a citizen of the State of Maryland, has been elected Clerk of the 
House of Representatives ofthe One Hundred Fifteenth Congress.
  The message also announced that pursuant to House Resolution 3, the 
Speaker appoints the following Members of the House ofRepresentatives 
to join a committee on the part of the Senate to notify the President 
of the United States that a quorum of eachHouse has assembled and that 
Congress is ready to receive any communication that he may be pleased 
to make: Mr. McCarthy ofCalifornia and Ms. Pelosi of California.
  The message further announced that pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 1024(a), and 
the order of the House of today, the Speaker appointsthe following 
Member of the House of Representatives to the Joint Economic Committee: 
Mr. Tiberi of Ohio.

                          ____________________



