

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 43 (Monday, March 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 43 (Monday, March 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1778]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr. Tester, and Ms. 
             Cantwell):
       S. 607. A bill to establish a business incubators program 
     within the Department of the Interior to promote economic 
     development in Indian reservation communities; to the 
     Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr. Schumer, Mr. 
             Durbin, Ms. Klobuchar, Ms. Cortez Masto, Mr. Booker, 
             Mr. Leahy, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Coons, Mr. Blumenthal, 
             Ms. Hirono, Mr. Markey, Ms. Baldwin, Ms. Warren, Mr. 
             Carper, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Bennet, Mrs. Murray, Mr. 
             Udall, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Franken, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Reed, 
             Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Merkley, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Murphy, 
             Mr. Menendez, Mr. King, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Casey, Mr. 
             Heinrich, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Duckworth, 
             Mr. Brown, Ms. Stabenow, and Ms. Harris):
       S. 608. A bill to nullify the effect of the March 6, 2017 
     executive order that temporarily restricts most nationals 
     from six countries from entering the United States; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MORAN (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. 
             Grassley, Ms. Murkowski, Mr. Whitehouse, Ms. Baldwin, 
             Mr. Brown, Mr. Tester, and Mr. King):
       S. 609. A bill to amend the Department of Veterans Affairs 
     Health Care Programs Enhancement Act of 2001 and title 38, 
     United States Code, to require the provision of chiropractic 
     care and services to veterans at all Department of Veterans 
     Affairs medical centers and to expand access to such care and 
     services, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. REED (for himself and Mr. Grassley):
       S. 610. A bill to promote transparency by permitting the 
     Public Company Accounting Oversight Board to allow its 
     disciplinary proceedings to be open to the public, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs.
           By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself and Mr. Portman):
       S. 611. A bill to amend the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
     Assistance Act to meet the needs of homeless children, youth, 
     and families, and honor the assessments and priorities of 
     local communities; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself and Mr. McCain):
       S. 612. A bill to provide for the unencumbering of title to 
     non-Federal land owned by the city of Tucson, Arizona, for 
     purposes of economic development by conveyance of the Federal 
     reversionary interest to the City; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. FLAKE:
       S. 613. A bill to amend the Public Utility Regulatory 
     Policies Act of 1978 to provide for the consideration by 
     State regulatory authorities and nonregulated electric 
     utilities of whether subsidies should be provided for the 
     deployment, construction, maintenance, or operation of a 
     customer-side technology; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself and Mr. McCain):
       S. 614. A bill to require the Secretary of the Interior to 
     establish a pilot program for commercial recreation 
     concessions on certain land managed by the Bureau of Land 
     Management; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BENNET (for himself and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 615. A bill to establish an alternative, outcomes-based 
     process for authorizing innovative, high-quality higher 
     education providers to participate in programs under title IV 
     of the Higher Education Act of 1965; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. LEE (for himself and Mr. Hatch):
       S.J. Res. 38. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by the Environmental 
     Protection Agency relating to ``Approval, Disapproval and 
     Promulgation of Air Quality Implementation Plans; Partial 
     Approval and Partial Disapproval of Air Quality 
     Implementation Plans and Federal Implementation Plan; Utah; 
     Revisions to Regional Haze State Implementation Plan; Federal 
     Implementation Plan for Regional Haze''; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.

                          ____________________



