

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 27 (Wednesday, February 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 27 (Wednesday, February 15, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1242-H1244]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]


                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. HOYER (for himself, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida, Mr. Engel, Mr. Kinzinger, Mr. Schiff, Mr. 
             Smith of Washington, and Mr. Turner):
       H.R. 1059. A bill to provide for congressional oversight of 
     actions to waive, suspend, reduce, provide relief from, or 
     otherwise limit the application of sanctions with respect to 
     the Russian Federation, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committees on the Judiciary, Rules, and Ways and Means, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. COURTNEY (for himself, Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania, and Mr. Faso):
       H.R. 1060. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to include certain individuals who work on farms or ranches 
     as individuals who are employed in public service jobs for 
     purposes of eligibility for loan forgiveness under the 
     Federal Direct Loan program; to the Committee on Education 
     and the Workforce.
           By Mr. CHAFFETZ (for himself, Mr. Conyers, Mr. 
             Farenthold, Mr. Poe of Texas, and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 1061. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     regulate the use of cell-site simulators, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CHAFFETZ (for himself, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Poe of 
             Texas, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Welch, Mr. Labrador, Mr. 
             Jordan, and Mr. Issa):
       H.R. 1062. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     specify the circumstances in which a person may acquire 
     geolocation information and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Intelligence (Permanent Select), for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. O'ROURKE (for himself, Mr. Coffman, Mr. Jones, 
             Mr. Peters, Miss Rice of New York, and Ms. Titus):
       H.R. 1063. A bill to ensure that an individual who is 
     transitioning from receiving medical treatment furnished by 
     the Secretary of Defense to medical treatment furnished by 
     the Secretary of Veterans Affairs receives the pharmaceutical 
     agents required for such transition; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. O'ROURKE (for himself and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 1064. A bill to authorize an individual who is 
     transitioning from receiving treatment furnished by the 
     Secretary of Defense to treatment furnished by the Secretary 
     of Veterans Affairs to continue receiving treatment from such 
     individual's mental health care provider of the Department of 
     Defense, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services, and in addition to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MESSER (for himself, Mr. Schrader, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. 
             Moulton, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. Delaney, 
             Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Stivers, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Russell, 
             Mr. Marshall, Mrs. Walorski, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Wittman, 
             Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Soto, Mr. Walz, Mr. Duffy, Mr. 
             Peters, Mr. Bucshon, Mr. Sensenbrenner, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Bost, Mr. Cooper, Mr. 
             Franks of Arizona, Mr. Cook, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. 
             Hultgren, Mr. Pittenger, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham 
             of New Mexico, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Guthrie, Mr. Hill, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Mooney of West 
             Virginia, Mr. Jones, Mr. Upton, Mr. Katko, Mr. 
             Goodlatte, Mr. Collins of New York, Mrs. Blackburn, 
             Mrs. Bustos, and Ms. Jenkins of Kansas):
       H.R. 1065. A bill to establish biennial budgets for the 
     United States Government; to the Committee on the Budget, and 
     in addition to the Committees on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and Rules, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. KILMER (for himself and Mr. Newhouse):
       H.R. 1066. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of 
     the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
     regarding the organizational structure of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER:
       H.R. 1067. A bill to amend section 524(c) of title 18, 
     United States Code, to use lawfully forfeited drug seizures 
     to increase border security; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. PALLONE (for himself, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Cardenas, 
             Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Blumenauer, 
             Ms. DeLauro, Mrs. Dingell, Ms. Matsui, Ms. DeGette, 
             and Mr. McNerney):
       H.R. 1068. A bill to enable needed drinking water 
     standards, reduce lead in drinking water, plan for and 
     address threats from climate change, terrorism, and source 
     water contamination, invest in drinking water infrastructure, 
     increase compliance with drinking water standards, foster 
     greater community right to know about drinking water quality, 
     and promote technological solutions for drinking water 
     challenges; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. LAWRENCE (for herself, Mr. Langevin, Ms. Bass, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, and Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 1069. A bill to amend part B of title IV of the Social 
     Security Act to ensure that mental health screenings and 
     assessments are provided to children and youth upon entry 
     into foster care; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CALVERT:
       H.R. 1070. A bill to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
     1938 to provide that an employee's `regular rate' for 
     purposes of calculating overtime compensation will not be 
     affected by certain additional payments; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. TONKO (for himself, Mr. Pallone, Ms. Matsui, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Sarbanes, 
             Mrs. Dingell, Mr. McNerney, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Gene Green 
             of Texas, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Peters, Mr. Welch, Ms. DeGette, and 
             Ms. Castor of Florida):
       H.R. 1071. A bill to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to 
     increase assistance for States, water systems, and 
     disadvantaged communities; to encourage good financial and 
     environmental management of water systems; to strengthen the 
     Environmental Protection Agency's ability to enforce the 
     requirements of the Act; and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SANFORD (for himself, Mr. Duncan of South 
             Carolina, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Garrett, and 
             Mr. Mooney of West Virginia):
       H.R. 1072. A bill to repeal provisions of the Patient 
     Protection and Affordable Care Act and provide private health 
     insurance reform, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Ways and Means, Education and the Workforce, and the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BEYER (for himself and Mr. Cook):
       H.R. 1073. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the 
     Interior to establish a structure for visitor services on the 
     Arlington Ridge tract, in the area of the U.S. Marine Corps 
     War Memorial, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BLUM (for himself, Mr. Young of Iowa, Mr. 
             Loebsack, and Mr. King of Iowa):
       H.R. 1074. A bill to repeal the Act entitled ``An Act to 
     confer jurisdiction on the State of Iowa over offenses 
     committed by or against Indians on the Sac and Fox Indian 
     Reservation''; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. CLARKE of New York (for herself, Mr. Soto, Mr. 
             Brown of Maryland, Ms. Norton, Ms. Bass, Mr. Kihuen, 
             Ms. Fudge, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. Clyburn, Mr. 
             Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Evans, Mr. 
             Butterfield, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Cleaver, Mrs. Demings, 
             Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Lawson of Florida, and Ms. 
             Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas):
       H.R. 1075. A bill to provide that the Executive Order 
     entitled ``Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry 
     into the United States'' (January 27, 2017) shall have no 
     force or effect, to prohibit the use of Federal funds to 
     enforce the Executive Order, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees 
     on Foreign Affairs, Homeland Security, and Intelligence 
     (Permanent Select), for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. CLARKE of New York (for herself, Ms. Velazquez, 
             Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Ms. Norton, Ms. Bass, 
             Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Soto, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Al Green of 
             Texas, Mr. Clyburn, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. 
             Evans, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Cleaver, Mrs. 
             Demings, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, 
             Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, 
             Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Clay, Ms. Eddie Bernice 
             Johnson of Texas, and Mrs. Beatty):
       H.R. 1076. A bill to provide that section 9 of Executive 
     Order 13768, relating to sanctuary jurisdictions, shall have 
     no force or effect, to prohibit the use of funds for certain 
     purposes, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently

[[Page H1243]]

     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Ms. Norton, Mrs. Carolyn B. 
             Maloney of New York, and Mr. Scott of Virginia):
       H.R. 1077. A bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of the Treasury to regulate tax return 
     preparers; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. DAVIS of California (for herself, Ms. Jenkins 
             of Kansas, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Young of Alaska, and Mr. 
             Walz):
       H.R. 1078. A bill to amend title 37, United States Code, to 
     exclude the receipt of basic allowance for housing for 
     members of the Armed Forces in determining eligibility for 
     certain Federal benefits, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Grijalva, 
             and Ms. Judy Chu of California):
       H.R. 1079. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to require institutions of higher education to disclose their 
     concealed carry or open carry policies with respect to 
     firearms, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. 
             Adams, Mr. Conyers, Ms. Lee, Mr. Payne, and Ms. 
             Moore):
       H.R. 1080. A bill to amend the Securities Act of 1933 and 
     the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide an exemption and 
     payments from taxation for 501(c)(3) bonds issued on behalf 
     of a historically Black college or university; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Financial Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. EMMER:
       H.R. 1081. A bill to eliminate the discretion of the 
     Secretary of Homeland Security regarding the definition of 
     the term ``official purpose'' as it applies to drivers' 
     licenses and personal identification cards, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. GUTHRIE (for himself and Mr. Mullin):
       H.R. 1082. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to eliminate the State option to reduce the home equity 
     exemption amount for purposes of eligibility for long-term 
     care assistance under Medicaid, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Lofgren, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Garamendi, Ms. Lee, Mr. Thompson 
             of California, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Takano, Mr. Meeks, and Mr. Conyers):
       H.R. 1083. A bill to establish an American Savings Account 
     Fund and create a retirement savings plan available to all 
     employees, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Ms. KELLY of Illinois (for herself, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Evans, Ms. Lee, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Ms. Norton, Mrs. Lawrence, Ms. Moore, Mr. 
             Richmond, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. 
             Clarke of New York, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Meeks, Mr. 
             Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. Veasey, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. 
             Gutierrez, and Mr. Tonko):
       H.R. 1084. A bill to address slow economic growth and spur 
     investment and development in underserved communities across 
     America; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition 
     to the Committees on Education and the Workforce, 
     Agriculture, Financial Services, Small Business, Energy and 
     Commerce, the Judiciary, and Oversight and Government Reform, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico:
       H.R. 1085. A bill to withdraw certain Bureau of Land 
     Management land from mineral development; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico:
       H.R. 1086. A bill to require executive agencies to notify 
     the public and consider public comment before relocating an 
     office of the agency that has regular contact with the 
     public, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico:
       H.R. 1087. A bill to establish a pilot program in certain 
     agencies for the use of public-private agreements to enhance 
     the efficiency of Federal real property; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. NADLER (for himself, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Clarke of 
             New York, Mr. Jeffries, and Mr. Espaillat):
       H.R. 1088. A bill to establish the African Burial Ground 
     International Memorial Museum and Educational Center in New 
     York, New York, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. POLIS (for himself, Mr. Tipton, Mr. Blumenauer, 
             and Mr. Walden):
       H.R. 1089. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to ensure that kombucha is exempt from any excise taxes 
     and regulations imposed on alcoholic beverages; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. Meehan, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Faso, Mr. Larson of 
             Connecticut, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. 
             Rokita, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Kind, Mr. Cole, Mrs. Love, 
             Mr. Reichert, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Blum, Mr. Curbelo of 
             Florida, Mr. Young of Iowa, and Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 1090. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to extend the credit for residential energy efficient 
     property and the energy credit; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. RENACCI (for himself, Mr. Bucshon, and Mr. 
             Kilmer):
       H.R. 1091. A bill to amend certain provisions of the Social 
     Security Act relating to demonstration projects designed to 
     promote the reemployment of unemployed workers; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. RYAN of Ohio (for himself, Mr. Reed, and Mr. 
             Lipinski):
       H.R. 1092. A bill to establish the United States Chief 
     Manufacturing Officer in the Executive Office of the 
     President with the responsibility of developing a national 
     manufacturing strategy to revitalize the manufacturing 
     sector, spur economic growth, and expand United States 
     competitiveness, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SIRES (for himself and Mr. Payne):
       H.R. 1093. A bill to require the Federal Railroad 
     Administration and the Federal Transit Authority to provide 
     appropriate Congressional notice of safety audits conducted 
     with respect to railroads and rail transit agencies; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Ms. SLAUGHTER (for herself, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, 
             Mr. Clyburn, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Kihuen, Mr. Hastings, Ms. 
             DeLauro, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Ms. Meng, 
             Mr. Ellison, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. Polis, Mr. 
             Scott of Virginia, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Ms. Speier, 
             Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Beyer, and Mrs. Napolitano):
       H.R. 1094. A bill to change the date for regularly 
     scheduled general elections for Federal office to the first 
     Saturday and Sunday after the first Friday in November in 
     every even-numbered year; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself and Mr. 
             McGovern):
       H.R. 1095. A bill to amend the Torture Victims Relief Act 
     of 1998 to authorize appropriations to provide assistance for 
     domestic and foreign programs and centers for the treatment 
     of victims of torture, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. STEWART (for himself, Mr. Long, Mr. Roskam, Mr. 
             Tipton, Mr. Chaffetz, Mr. Pearce, Mr. McClintock, Mr. 
             Bishop of Utah, and Mr. Burgess):
       H.R. 1096. A bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to 
     provide for transparency of payments made from the Judgment 
     Fund; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. TAKANO (for himself and Mr. Bishop of Georgia):
       H.R. 1097. A bill to increase consumer protection with 
     respect to negative option agreements entered into on the 
     Internet, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. TIBERI (for himself, Mr. Neal, Mr. Reed, Mr. 
             Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. Meehan, Mr. McKinley, Mr. 
             Kind, Mr. Higgins of New York, Mr. Smith of Missouri, 
             Mr. Paulsen, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Thompson of California, Mr. Pascrell, 
             Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, Ms. 
             Sanchez, Mr. Turner, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. Johnson 
             of Ohio, Mr. Stivers, and Mr. Renacci):
       H.R. 1098. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to permanently extend the new markets tax credit, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. WITTMAN (for himself and Mr. Thompson of 
             California):
       H.R. 1099. A bill to extend the authorization of 
     appropriations for allocation to carry out approved wetlands 
     conservation projects

[[Page H1244]]

     under the North American Wetlands Conservation Act through 
     fiscal year 2022; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. ZELDIN (for himself and Ms. Gabbard):
       H.R. 1100. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     eliminate copayments by the Department of Veterans Affairs 
     for medicines relating to preventive health services, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. POCAN (for himself, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Lewis of 
             Georgia, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Takano, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Cohen, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Brendan F. 
             Boyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. Moore, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Mr. Lowenthal, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. 
             Norcross, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Judy Chu 
             of California, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Conyers, 
             Mr. Grijalva, and Ms. Roybal-Allard):
       H.J. Res. 74. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States regarding the right to 
     vote; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO:
       H.J. Res. 75. A joint resolution to amend the War Powers 
     Resolution; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Rules, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. ADAMS (for herself, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Moore, 
             Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Hastings, Mr. McGovern, 
             and Mr. Soto):
       H. Con. Res. 25. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of Congress on the admission of refugees and immigrants to 
     the United States; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ADERHOLT (for himself, Mr. Culberson, and Mr. 
             Smith of Texas):
       H. Con. Res. 26. Concurrent resolution to express the sense 
     of Congress that the first launch of the Space Launch System 
     should be named for Captain Eugene Andrew ``Gene'' Cernan; to 
     the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. LOWENTHAL (for himself, Mr. Reichert, and Mr. 
             Grijalva):
       H. Con. Res. 27. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of Congress that America's Federal public lands are national 
     treasures that belong to all Americans; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CROWLEY:
       H. Res. 127. A resolution electing Members to certain 
     standing committees of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself, Ms. Bass, Mr. 
             Coffman, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Veasey, and Mr. 
             Ellison):
       H. Res. 128. A resolution supporting respect for human 
     rights and encouraging inclusive governance in Ethiopia; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas:
       H. Res. 129. A resolution calling on the Department of 
     Defense, other elements of the Federal Government, and 
     foreign governments to intensify efforts to investigate, 
     recover, and identify all missing and unaccounted-for 
     personnel of the United States; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on Armed Services, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO (for himself, Mr. Courtney, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Ellison, 
             Ms. Norton, Mr. Polis, Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. Roybal-
             Allard, and Ms. DeLauro):
       H. Res. 130. A resolution supporting efforts to increase 
     competition and accountability in the health insurance 
     marketplace, and to extend accessible, quality, affordable 
     health care coverage to every American through the choice of 
     a public insurance plan; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.

                          ____________________



