

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 5 (Monday, January 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 5 (Monday, January 9, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H236-H237]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




    CONGRESSIONAL EARMARKS, LIMITED TAX BENEFITS, OR LIMITED TARIFF 
                                BENEFITS

  Under clause 9 of rule XXI, lists or statements on congressional 
earmarks, limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits were 
submitted as follows:

                         Offered By Mr. Chabot

       The provisions that warranted a referral to the Committee 
     on Small Business in H.R. 5 do not contain any congressional 
     earmarks, limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as 
     defined in Clause 9 of rule XXI.

                        Offered By Mr. Chaffetz

       The provisions that warranted a referral to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform in H.R. 5 do not contain 
     any congressional earmarks, limited tax benefits, or limited 
     tariff benefits as defined in clause 9 of rule XXI.

                        Offered By Mr. Goodlatte

       The provisions that warranted a referral to the Committee 
     on Judiciary in H.R. 5 do not contain any congressional 
     earmarks, limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as 
     defined in clause 9 of rule XXI.
       The amendment to be offered by Chairman Goodlatte, or a 
     designee, to H.R. 5, the Regulatory Accountability Act, does 
     not contain any congressional earmarks, limited tax benefits, 
     or limited tariff benefits as defined in clause 9 of rule 
     XXI.

                       Offered By Mr. Hensarling

       H.R. 78 does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
     limited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as defined 
     in clause 9 of rule XXI of the Rules of the House of 
     Representatives.

                       Offered By Mr. Hensarling

       H.R. 79 does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
     limited tax benefits, or limited

[[Page H237]]

     tariff benefits as defined in clause 9 of rule XXI of the 
     Rules of the House of Representatives.

                       Offered By Mr. Hensarling

       The provisions in H.R. 238 that warranted a referral to the 
     Committee on Financial Services do not contain any 
     congressional earmarks, limited tax benefits, or limited 
     tariff benefits as defined in clause 9 of rule XXI of the 
     Rules of the House of Representatives.


