

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 13 (Tuesday, January 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H612]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    HONORING THE LIFE OF TOM MURRAY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Costello) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, it is with a heavy heart 
that I rise today on behalf of myself and all readers of the Daily 
Local News, a newspaper in my congressional district, Pennsylvania's 
Sixth Congressional District, to honor the life of Tom Murray, the 
editor of the Daily Local News, who just passed.
  Mike Rellahan, in writing an obituary on Mr. Murray, accurately had 
this to say:

       Tom Murray's personality shone through in the way he dealt 
     with reporters, photographers, other editors, and colleagues 
     on the multiple newspapers and media outlets he worked at 
     over the years. It showed in his passion for helping people 
     get better at their craft, in his own strong work ethic and 
     in his sense of humor and humanity.
       He was a hard-core newspaperman who loved a good lead 
     paragraph, a clever headline, and an action-packed photo. He 
     believed the society page was as important in the Main Line 
     papers he worked for as the sports page was to the 
     Gloucester, New Jersey, Daily Times, where he held the post 
     of sports editor for 9 years, because he believed a newspaper 
     at its best reflects its readers.
       More than that, however, Murray stayed true to the ideals 
     of old-school print journalism, loving the traditions and 
     storytelling while at the same time embracing and chasing the 
     future with enthusiasm. He began reporting when electronic 
     journalism was in its infancy, but became so involved in the 
     new digital age that one of his happiest moments came when a 
     video screen showing the realtime activity of the Daily Local 
     News' Web site was installed in the newsroom.

  Tom Murray, you will be missed. Thank you for your service and your 
contribution to journalism, to our democracy, and to sharing news with 
those throughout the tri-county area for so long.


          Realizing Full Potential of Advanced Nuclear Energy

  Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to support 
H.R. 590, the Advanced Nuclear Technology Development Act, legislation 
that takes an important step towards developing safer, more reliable 
clean energy. Nuclear energy accounts for approximately 20 percent of 
all U.S. electricity and, very importantly, 60 percent of all carbon-
free electricity in the U.S.
  As our existing nuclear infrastructure moves closer to retirement, 
advanced nuclear technology offers a modern solution to ensure that 
American families have a safe, affordable, and reliable source of clean 
energy for generations to come. However, in order to fully realize the 
potential of advanced nuclear, we must remove the costly red tape that 
prevents innovation and streamline existing practices to allow for the 
safe and effective development of this technology.
  I thank Congressman Latta for his leadership on this bipartisan 
issue, and I am pleased to support it and see it pass the House.


               Keeping Personal Data Secure from Spoofing

  Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of 
H.R. 423, the Anti-Spoofing Act, a bill I also supported last Congress.
  Mr. Speaker, call spoofing is a telephone scam used to change the 
information on a caller ID and pose as a trusted source, such as an 
official government agency, a medical center, or a bank.
  The intention behind call spoofing is to collect valuable personal 
information, such as banking information, to defraud or cause other 
harm to an individual or family. Seniors and veterans are frequently 
targeted in these scams.
  In an effort to protect your personal information, this bill would 
close existing loopholes and direct the Federal Communications 
Commission to ensure those who engage in spoofing face criminal fines 
and penalties.
  Call spoofing is not just limited to voice messages. Those using this 
tactic also utilize text messages, and H.R. 423 would include text 
messages in these fines and penalties. This bill would keep personal 
data secure and protect consumers, and I am pleased to see that it has 
passed the House.

                          ____________________



