

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H62-H63]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 APPROVING LOCATION OF MEMORIAL TOCOMMEMORATE MEMBERS OF ARMED FORCES 
  WHO SERVED IN SUPPORT OF OPERATION DESERT STORM OR OPERATION DESERT 
                                 SHIELD

  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
joint resolution (H.J. Res. 3)approving the location of a memorial to 
commemorate and honor the members of the Armed Forces who served on 
active duty insupport of Operation Desert Storm or Operation Desert 
Shield.
  The Clerk read the title of the joint resolution.
  The textof the joint resolution is as follows:

                              H.J. Res. 3

       Whereassubsection (b)(1) of section 8908 of title 40, 
     United States Code, provides that the location of a 
     commemorative work in thearea depicted as ``Area I'' on the 
     map described in subsection (a) of that section shall be 
     deemed to be authorized only ifapproved by law not later than 
     150 days after the date on which Congress is notified that 
     the subject of the commemorative workis of preeminent 
     historical and lasting significance to the United States;
       Whereas section 3093 of the Carl Levin and HowardP. 
     ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
     Year 2015 (40 U.S.C. 8903 note; Public Law 113-291)authorized 
     the National Desert Storm Memorial Association to establish a 
     memorial in the District of Columbia to commemorate andhonor 
     the members of the Armed Forces who served on active duty in 
     support of Operation Desert Storm or Operation Desert 
     Shield;and
       Whereas the Secretary of the Interior has notified Congress 
     of the determination of the Secretary of the Interior thatthe 
     subject of the memorial is of preeminent historical and 
     lasting significance to the United States and may be located 
     in AreaI: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
     United States of America inCongress assembled, That the 
     location of the commemorative work authorized by section 3093 
     of the Carl Levin and Howard P.``Buck'' McKeon National 
     Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (40 U.S.C. 
     8903 note; Public Law 113-291) tocommemorate and honor the 
     members of the Armed Forces who served on active duty in 
     support of Operation Desert Storm orOperation Desert Shield, 
     within Area I, as depicted on the map described in section 
     8908(a) of title 40, United States Code, isapproved.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
California (Mr.McClintock) and the gentlewoman from Massachusetts (Ms. 
Tsongas) each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chairrecognizes the gentleman from California.


                             General Leave

  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days to reviseand extend their remarks and 
include extraneous materials on the joint resolution under 
consideration.
  The SPEAKER protempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from California?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, H.J. Res. 3 byCongressman Roe of Tennessee authorizes 
the National Desert Storm War Memorial Association to consider sites 
along or nearthe National Mall for a memorial to honor the members of 
Armed Forces who served on Active Duty in support of Operation 
DesertStorm or Operation Desert Shield.
  Under the Commemorative Works Act, any memorial proposed to be 
located on Federal landalong or near the National Mall must be approved 
by Congress after the Secretary of the Interior determines that the 
proposedwork is ``of preeminent historical and lasting significance to 
the United States.''
  The Secretary of the Interior hasrecommended that the Desert Storm 
War Memorial Association be authorized to consider sites in Area I for 
the memorial, and thisresolution would provide Congress' approval of 
the Secretary's recommendation. Congress provided initial authorization 
for theDesert Storm and Desert Shield Memorial in 2014, and the 
memorial is to be funded solely by private donations.
  History willno doubt continue to debate the political decisions that 
stopped our forces before they reached Baghdad, but it has 
alreadyrecorded and judged the effectiveness, the heroism, and the 
devotion of our Armed Forces and their commanders in the field 
whoutterly vanquished the largest army in the Middle East in just 100 
hours and who liberated the people of Kuwait from a hideousand sadistic 
occupation.
  This memorial will do more than honor the 382 Americans who gave 
their lives in the gulf war andensure that they will not be forgotten. 
After all, as Lincoln said at Gettysburg:

       The honor theyearned on the battlefield cannot be added to 
     or detracted by us, and long after our words are forgotten, 
     their deeds will beremembered and celebrated.

  But this monument will also remind future generations at home and 
abroad, friend and foe, ofwhat American Armed Forces can do to rescue 
and protect the weak, and vanquish and punish the guilty, when 
competently commandedin the field and backed by the full resolve of the 
American people in a righteous cause.
  I urge adoption of the measure.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. TSONGAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself suchtime as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, following the invasion and occupation of Kuwait by Iraqi 
leader Saddam Hussein, theUnited States and the international community 
demanded the immediate withdrawal of Iraqi forces under the threat of 
militaryaction. After Saddam Hussein defied calls to withdraw from 
Kuwait, the United States, along with a broad coalition of 
European,regional, and global allies, began Operation Desert Shield, 
followed by Operation Desert Storm, a 100-hour land war whichexpelled 
the Iraqi forces from Kuwait.
  Approximately 700,000 members of the American Armed Forces served as 
part ofOperation Desert Storm and Operation Desert Shield. Of those, 
293 died in theater and 148 were killed in action.
  The 2015National Defense Authorization Act authorized the National 
Desert Storm and Desert Shield War Memorial Association to establisha 
memorial as a commemorative work on Federal land in the District of 
Columbia. This honors the members of the American ArmedForces who 
served and those who made the ultimate sacrifice in support of our 
country.
  The joint resolution before us todayapproves the general location of 
the memorial so that it is in close proximity to the National Mall and 
other nationallysignificant war memorials, as determined by the 
Secretary of the Interior.
  This resolution is an opportunity for the countryto come together and 
thank the servicemembers who fought in the Gulf, those whose lives have 
been forever changed by theirexperience in this war, and those who did 
not return.
  I support this resolution, and I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes.''
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I yieldsuch time as he may consume to 
the gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. Roe), the author of this measure.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. McClintock for 
yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support ofthis very important procedural 
measure to site the memorial to honor the men and women who served and 
died in Operation DesertStorm and Desert Shield in Area I of the 
National Mall.

[[Page H63]]

  On August 2, 1990, Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait and, in lessthan 24 
hours, dominated nearly 30 percent of the world's oil supply, swiftly 
setting his sights on neighboring Saudi Arabia.Recognizing Saudi 
Arabia's importance to the region, President George Herbert Walker Bush 
launched Operation Desert Shield, thedeployment of American combat 
forces to Saudi Arabia, and ordered Saddam Hussein to remove Iraqi 
troops from Kuwait by January15, 1991. With Kuwait still occupied after 
the deadline passed, over half a million United States armed services 
members ledcoalition forces in the liberation of Kuwait--Operation 
Desert Storm.
  Of the roughly 600,000 American troops who weredeployed in both 
Operation Desert Shield and Desert Storm, 294 died in theater, of which 
148 were killed in action. The UnitedStates currently lacks a 
national memorial dedicated to the valor and sacrifices made by those 
members ofour Armed Forces who fought honorably in Operation Desert 
Shield and Desert Storm.

  Mr. Speaker, it is important to note thatno Federal funds will be 
spent to build this memorial. All funds will be raised privately by the 
National Desert Storm WarMemorial Association. We must honor the men 
and women who fought honorably and valiantly in support of these 
operations andmemorialize those who gave a life to free another.
  The establishment of this memorial was authorized in the National 
DefenseAuthorization Act for fiscal year 2015. Passing this resolution 
is simply the next step in the process for site selection. TheSecretary 
of the Interior has confirmed the historical value of the proposed 
memorial and deemed it worthy of being constructedin Area I of 
Washington, D.C., which includes the areas around other monuments to 
great American heroism.
  In conclusion, Mr.Speaker, many of us in this Congress know many of 
the people who served in Desert Storm and Desert Shield, many personal 
friendsof mine did, and many paid the ultimate sacrifice. It is time 
now we honor those heroes of this country.
  Ms. TSONGAS. Mr. Speaker, I have no other speakers.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the measure.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from California (Mr.McClintock) that the House suspend the 
rules and pass the joint resolution, H.J. Res. 3.
  The question was taken; and(two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the joint resolution was passed.
  A motion to reconsiderwas laid on the table.

                          ____________________



