

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S62]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          SUBMITTEDRESOLUTIONS

                                 ______
                                 

   SENATE RESOLUTION 6--OBJECTING TO UNITED NATIONS SECURITYCOUNCIL 
 RESOLUTION 2334 AND TO ALL EFFORTS THAT UNDERMINE DIRECT NEGOTIATIONS 
BETWEEN ISRAEL AND THE PALESTINIANS FOR A SECUREAND PEACEFUL SETTLEMENT

  Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. Cardin, Mr. McConnell, Mr. Schumer, Mr. 
Moran, Mr. Nelson,Mr. Cotton, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Graham, Mrs. 
Gillibrand, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Blumenthal, Mrs.Ernst, Mr. Coons, Mr. 
Young, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Heller, Mr. Casey, Mr. Portman, Mr.Donnelly, Mr. 
McCain, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Risch, Mr. Peters, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Warner, 
Mr.Sullivan, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Roberts, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. 
Cochran, Mr. Barrasso,Ms. Collins, Mr. Toomey, Mr. Manchin, Mr. Flake, 
Mr. Booker, and Mrs. Capito) submitted thefollowing resolution; which 
was referred to the Committee on Foreign Relations:

                                S. Res.6

       Whereas it is long-standing policy of the United States 
     Government that a peaceful resolution to the Israeli-
     Palestinianconflict must come through direct, bilateral 
     negotiations without preconditions for a sustainable two-
     state solution;
       WhereasPresident Barack Obama expressed before the United 
     Nations General Assembly in 2011 that ``peace will not come 
     throughstatements and resolutions at the United Nations--if 
     it were that easy, it would have been accomplished by now'';
       WhereasYasser Arafat committed by letter dated September 9, 
     1993, to then Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, ``The PLO commits 
     itself to theMiddle East peace process and to the peaceful 
     resolution of the conflict between the two sides and declares 
     that all outstandingissues relating to permanent status will 
     be resolved by negotiation.'';
       Whereas the United Nations has taken a long-standingbiased 
     approach towards Israel, confirmed in outgoing Secretary-
     General Ban Ki Moon's final address to the United 
     NationsSecurity Council, when he described the 
     ``disproportionate'' volume of resolutions targeting Israel 
     and stated that ``decades ofpolitical maneuvering have 
     created a disproportionate number of resolutions, reports, 
     and committees againstIsrael'';
       Whereas the United Nations is not the appropriate venue and 
     should not be a forum used for seeking unilateralaction, 
     recognition, or dictating parameters for a two-state 
     solution, including the status of Jerusalem;
       Whereas it is long-standing practice of the United States 
     Government to oppose and veto any United Nations Security 
     Council resolution dictatingterms, conditions, and timelines 
     on the peace process;
       Whereas it is also the historic position of the United 
     StatesGovernment to oppose and veto one-sided or anti-Israel 
     resolutions at the United Nations Security Council;
       Whereas efforts toimpose a solution or parameters for a 
     solution will make negotiations more difficult and will set 
     back the cause ofpeace;
       Whereas the Obama Administration's decision not to veto 
     United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 (2016) 
     isinconsistent with long-standing United States policy and 
     makes direct negotiations more, not less, challenging;
       Whereasseveral United States administrations have 
     articulated principles as a vision for achieving a two-state 
     solution, includingaddressing borders, mutual recognition, 
     refugees, Jerusalem, and ending all outstanding claims;
       Whereas Israel is a vibrantdemocracy whose leaders are 
     elected and accountable to the Israeli people; and
       Whereas the Palestinian Authority must engagein broad, 
     meaningful, and systemic reforms in order to ultimately 
     prepare its institutions and people for statehood and 
     peacefulcoexistence with Israel: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) expresses grave objection toUnited Nations Security 
     Council Resolution 2334 (2016);
       (2) calls for United Nations Security Council Resolution 
     2334 to berepealed or fundamentally altered so that it is no 
     longer one-sided and allows all final status issues toward a 
     two-statesolution to be resolved through direct bilateral 
     negotiations between the parties;
       (3) rejects efforts by outside bodies,including the United 
     Nations Security Council, to impose solutions from the 
     outside that set back the cause of peace;
       (4)demands that the United States ensure that no action is 
     taken at the Paris Conference on the Israeli-Palestinian 
     conflictscheduled for January 15, 2017, that imposes an 
     agreement or parameters on the parties;
       (5) notes that granting membershipand statehood standing to 
     the Palestinians at the United Nations, its specialized 
     agencies, and other international institutionsoutside of the 
     context of a bilateral peace agreement with Israel would 
     cause severe harm to the peace process, and would 
     likelytrigger the implementation of penalties under sections 
     7036 and 7041(j) of the Department of State, Foreign 
     Operations, andRelated Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016 
     (division K of Public Law 114-113);
       (6) rejects any efforts by the UnitedNations, United 
     Nations agencies, United Nations member states, and other 
     international organizations to use United NationsSecurity 
     Council Resolution 2334 to further isolate Israel through 
     economic or other boycotts or any other measures, and 
     urgesthe United States Government to take action where needed 
     to counter any attempts to use United Nations Security 
     CouncilResolution 2334 to further isolate Israel;
       (7) urges the current presidential administration and all 
     future presidentialadministrations to uphold the practice of 
     vetoing all United Nations Security Council resolutions that 
     seek to insert theCouncil into the peace process, recognize 
     unilateral Palestinian actions including declaration of a 
     Palestinian state, ordictate terms and a timeline for a 
     solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict;
       (8) reaffirms that it is the policy of theUnited States to 
     continue to seek a sustainable, just, and secure two-state 
     solution to resolve the conflict between theIsraelis and the 
     Palestinians; and
       (9) urges the incoming Administration to work with Congress 
     to create conditions thatfacilitate the resumption of direct, 
     bilateral negotiations without preconditions between Israelis 
     and Palestinians with thegoal of achieving a sustainable 
     agreement that is acceptable to both sides.

                          ____________________



