

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 2 (Wednesday, January 4, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H56-H57]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1015
             DON'T ABANDON AMERICANS IN NEED OF HEALTH CARE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
fromIllinois (Mr. Quigley) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to share thestory of Mary and 
her son, two of my constituents from the Lakeview community of Chicago. 
Mary wrote to me on her son's behalf,expressing their deep appreciation 
for the Affordable Care Act and what the law has meant for their 
family.
  In 2001, Mary'sson was diagnosed with a rare autoimmune disease 
called Addison's disease. It occurs when your body produces 
insufficientamounts of certain hormones produced by your adrenal 
glands. When left untreated, Addison's disease can be life-threatening.
  At the time of his diagnosis, Mary's son was fully insured through 
his employer. Then, in 2011, Mary's son left his employerto pursue the 
American Dream of entrepreneurship and start a small business on his 
own. Leaving his employer to bravely chasethe American Dream meant 
leaving behind his insurance coverage, too. He did not anticipate being 
denied coverage due to apreexisting condition.

[[Page H57]]

  Up to this point, because of treatment covered by his insurance plan, 
he had been able to workto provide for himself and to live 
independently. As he got his new business off the ground, he went 
uninsured and, as a result,encountered several crises with his health. 
He avoided going to the doctor due to high costs and eventually ended 
up in theemergency room. As we all know, preventable emergency visits 
are a major contributor to the overall high healthcare costs thatharm 
the entire system.
  Thanks to the President and Congress passing the Affordable Care Act, 
Mary's son was finally able toobtain affordable care when the health 
insurance marketplace first opened in October 2013.
  Mary wrote me to share her son'sstory. He is one of tens of millions 
of Americans who have directly benefited from the ACA's improvements to 
coverage, consumerprotections, costs, and quality. Today, Mary is 
fearful of what the repeal of ACA will mean for her son.
  Unfortunately,despite having 7 years to produce an alternative, the 
majority has failed to offer a true replacement. And what about the 
partsof the ACA that share bipartisan popularity?
  My colleagues on the other side of the aisle and the President-elect 
insistthey will craft a plan that maintains popular parts of the law, 
while rejecting the less popular components. Of course, thatsounds 
great, but there is one real problem: they have offered absolutely no 
way to pay for any of it.
  In reality, repealand replace is more simply repeal and go back to 
before--tearing down a much-needed house before a new one is built, 
back to atime when 47 million Americans--nearly 18 percent of the 
population--were uninsured. Mary's son and countless others like 
himcannot afford to go back in time. Repealing ACA will leave 20 
million Americans, including her son, without affordable 
healthinsurance, effectively disrupting their care and potentially 
putting their lives at risk.
  To remind us all of the highstakes riding on the ACA repeal, Mary 
wrote, saying: ``As a former Republican and now an Independent voter, I 
am speaking frommy heart. The 2016 election result has me truly 
frightened for the health of my son and for my husband and me.''
  Repealingthe Affordable Care Act will create a chaotic situation that 
will put real lives in danger. We all share in the responsibilityto 
protect the health care of all Americans. Empty rhetoric of repealing 
the ACA is dangerous, but when transformed into reallegislative action, 
it can be catastrophic for the constituents that elected us to serve 
and represent them in this body.
  Onbehalf of Mary's son and other Americans in districts across the 
country, I urge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle toabandon 
their efforts to strip health care from those who need it and, instead, 
work with us to make our country a healthierplace for all.

                          ____________________



