

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 6 (Tuesday, January 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 6 (Tuesday, January 10, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H297-H299]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Ms. SHEA-PORTER:
       H.R. 388. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     ensure that veterans in each of the 48 contiguous States are 
     able to receive services in at least one full-service 
     hospital of the Veterans Health Administration in the State 
     or receive comparable services provided by contract in the 
     State; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself, Mr. Huffman, 
             Mr. DeFazio, and Mr. Young of Alaska):
       H.R. 389. A bill to amend the Federal Credit Union Act to 
     exclude a loan secured by a non-owner occupied 1- to 4-family 
     dwelling from the definition of a member business loan, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. 
             Meadows, Mr. Fortenberry, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Vargas, 
             Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Pittenger, 
             Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. Hultgren, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. 
             Trott, Mr. Duffy, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Ms. 
             Slaughter, and Mrs. Comstock):
       H.R. 390. A bill to provide for emergency relief to victims 
     of genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes in Iraq 
     and Syria, to provide accountability for perpetrators of 
     these crimes, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CHAFFETZ (for himself, Mrs. Black, Mr. Brooks of 
             Alabama, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. Carter of Texas, 
             Mr. Chabot, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. 
             Farenthold, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Gowdy, Mr. Jody B. Hice of 
             Georgia, Mr. Lance, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Smith of 
             Texas, Mr. Webster of Florida, Mr. Zeldin, and Mr. 
             Hudson):
       H.R. 391. A bill to modify the treatment of unaccompanied 
     alien children who are in Federal custody by reason of their 
     immigration status, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CHAFFETZ (for himself, Mr. Bishop of Michigan, 
             Mr. Cohen, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Courtney, 
             Mr. Cummings, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Farenthold, Ms. Kelly 
             of Illinois, Mr. Langevin, Mrs. Love, Ms. Meng, Mr. 
             O'Rourke, Mr. Paulsen, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Quigley, Mr. 
             Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. 
             Stewart, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Takano, Mrs. 
             Wagner, Mr. Walz, and Mr. Yarmuth):
       H.R. 392. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to eliminate the per-country numerical limitation for 
     employment-based immigrants, to increase the per-country 
     numerical limitation for family-sponsored immigrants, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. THORNBERRY:
       H.R. 393. A bill to provide for an exception to a 
     limitation against appointment of persons as Secretary of 
     Defense within seven years of relief from active duty as a 
     regular commissioned officer of the Armed Forces; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Ms. JENKINS of Kansas (for herself and Mr. Kind):
       H.R. 394. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to repeal the amendments made by the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act which disqualify expenses for over-the-
     counter drugs under health savings accounts and health 
     flexible spending arrangements; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mrs. LOVE (for herself, Mr. Massie, Mr. Stewart, Mr. 
             Walker, Mr. Buck, Mr. Blum, Mr. Duncan of South 
             Carolina, Mr. Biggs, Mr. Harris, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. 
             Ratcliffe, Mr. Brat, Mr. Johnson of Louisiana, Mr. 
             Meadows, Mr. Emmer, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Labrador, Mr. 
             Collins of Georgia, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. Bishop of Utah, 
             Mr. Webster of Florida, and Mr. Brooks of Alabama):
       H.R. 395. A bill to end the practice of including more than 
     one subject in a single bill by requiring that each bill 
     enacted by Congress be limited to only one subject, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CHAFFETZ:
       H.R. 396. A bill to prohibit the award of a contract or 
     grant in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold to a 
     potential contractor or grant applicant with a seriously 
     delinquent tax debt, to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     provide that individuals having seriously delinquent tax 
     debts shall be ineligible for Federal employment, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. CHAFFETZ:
       H.R. 397. A bill to require Members of Congress to disclose 
     delinquent tax liability and to require an ethics inquiry 
     into, and the garnishment of the wages of, a Member with 
     Federal tax liability; to the Committee on House 
     Administration, and in addition to the Committee on Rules, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KATKO (for himself, Ms. Judy Chu of California, 
             Mr. Sensenbrenner, and Ms. Jackson Lee):
       H.R. 398. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, 
     with respect to civil forfeitures relating to certain seized 
     animals; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DOGGETT (for himself, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Cummings, Mr. DeFazio, 
             Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Garamendi, 
             Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Higgins of New York, 
             Mr. Langevin, Ms. Lee, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, 
             Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Sean 
             Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Moore, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. Payne, Mr. Pocan, 
             Mr. Price of North Carolina, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Tonko, 
             Ms. Tsongas, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Visclosky, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Kaptur, 
             Mr. DeSaulnier, and Mr. Huffman):
       H.R. 399. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to expand the denial of deduction for certain excessive 
     employee remuneration, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. BLACK (for herself, Mr. Allen, Mr. Amodei, Mr. 
             Babin, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Brat, Mr. Bridenstine, Mr. 
             Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Buck, Mr. Bucshon, Mr. Byrne, 
             Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. Cook, Mr. Cramer, Mr. 
             Davidson, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. Fleischmann, Mr. 
             Flores, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. 
             Gohmert, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Graves of Louisiana, Mr. 
             Graves of Missouri, Mr. Graves of Georgia, Mr. 
             Grothman, Mr. Harris, Mr. Hensarling, Mr. Jody B. 
             Hice of Georgia, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. Sam 
             Johnson of Texas, Mr. Jones, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. 
             LaMalfa, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Long, Mr. Marino, Mr. 
             McClintock, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Olson, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. 
             Pittenger, Mr. Renacci, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. 
             Rogers of Alabama, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Smith of 
             Texas, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Ratcliffe, 
             Mr. Hudson, Mr. Posey, Mr. Latta, Mr. Austin Scott of 
             Georgia, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Kustoff of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Jenkins of West Virginia, Mr. 
             Marchant, Mr. Chabot, and Mr. Comer):

[[Page H298]]

  

       H.R. 400. A bill to ensure that State and local law 
     enforcement may cooperate with Federal officials to protect 
     our communities from violent criminals and suspected 
     terrorists who are illegally present in the United States; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Transportation and Infrastructure, and 
     Financial Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. CHENEY:
       H.R. 401. A bill to designate the mountain at the Devils 
     Tower National Monument, Wyoming, as Devils Tower, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Ms. Norton, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. 
             Evans, and Ms. Shea-Porter):
       H.R. 402. A bill to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to 
     require the inclusion of credit scores with free annual 
     credit reports provided to consumers, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. FARENTHOLD:
       H.R. 403. A bill to limit the construction or alterations 
     of wind turbines near a military airbase or military 
     airfield; to the Committee on Armed Services, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. FLEISCHMANN:
       H.R. 404. A bill to ensure the functionality and security 
     of new Federal websites that collect personally identifiable 
     information, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. JENKINS of West Virginia:
       H.R. 405. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide additional new markets tax credits for distressed 
     coal communities; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. KIND (for himself, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Jones, and 
             Mr. Byrne):
       H.R. 406. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     facilitate the replacement of military decorations for 
     relatives of deceased members of the Armed Forces; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa (for himself, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. 
             Gohmert, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Issa, Mr. Duncan of South 
             Carolina, Mr. Burgess, Mr. Stewart, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. 
             Marshall, and Mr. Hultgren):
       H.R. 407. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow a deduction for premiums for insurance which 
     constitutes medical care; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa (for himself, Mr. Carter of 
             Georgia, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Westerman, Mr. 
             Webster of Florida, Mr. McClintock, and Mr. Stewart):
       H.R. 408. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to expand health savings accounts, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa:
       H.R. 409. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to sunset certain penalties relating to 
     meaningful electronic health records use by Medicare eligible 
     professionals and hospitals, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa:
       H.R. 410. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to exclude coverage of advance care planning 
     services under the Medicare program; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KING of New York (for himself, Mr. Abraham, Mrs. 
             Radewagen, Ms. DeLauro, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Carter of 
             Georgia, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. 
             Wilson of South Carolina, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Peters, 
             Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. Meehan, Mr. Jones, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Keating, Mr. 
             Coffman, Mr. Cramer, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Quigley, Ms. 
             Shea-Porter, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Cicilline, Mrs. 
             Dingell, Mr. Cole, Ms. Pingree, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. 
             Massie, Mr. Rush, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Yoder, Mr. 
             Moulton, and Mr. Himes):
       H.R. 411. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to conduct a review of the deaths of certain veterans 
     who died by suicide, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. LAWRENCE:
       H.R. 412. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     require the provision of legal assistance to junior enlisted 
     personnel of the Armed Forces and their dependents in 
     connection with their personal civil legal affairs; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mrs. LAWRENCE:
       H.R. 413. A bill to establish an Early Federal Pell Grant 
     Commitment Program; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mrs. LAWRENCE:
       H.R. 414. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to allow an individual to qualify for both teacher loan 
     forgiveness and public service loan forgiveness, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mrs. LAWRENCE:
       H.R. 415. A bill to amend GEAR UP to require that schools 
     receiving funding under the program provide students with 
     access to academic and mental health counseling services, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mrs. LAWRENCE:
       H.R. 416. A bill to amend the Elementary and Secondary 
     Education Act of 1965 to strengthen accountability of 
     authorized public chartering agencies and reduce charter 
     school authorizing misconduct; to the Committee on Education 
     and the Workforce.
           By Mrs. LAWRENCE:
       H.R. 417. A bill to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to 
     require the improvement of consumer confidence reports, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. LAWRENCE:
       H.R. 418. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to establish a pilot program to improve access to 
     supportive services and community coordination for families 
     of disabled veterans; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. LAWRENCE:
       H.R. 419. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow a credit against tax for manufacturing job training 
     expenses; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. LAWRENCE:
       H.R. 420. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to permanently increase the limitations on the deduction for 
     start-up and organizational expenditures; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. LOVE (for herself, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Stewart, 
             Mr. Coffman, and Mr. Kinzinger):
       H.R. 421. A bill to allow women greater access to safe and 
     effective contraception; to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. McCLINTOCK (for himself, Ms. Foxx, Mr. Grothman, 
             Mr. Flores, Mr. Fleischmann, Mr. Franks of Arizona, 
             Mr. Gosar, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Rohrabacher, Mr. 
             Meadows, Mr. Harris, Mr. Stewart, Mr. Tipton, Mr. 
             Wenstrup, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Sanford, Mr. Bishop of 
             Utah, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. Emmer, 
             Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. Westerman, Mr. Chabot, Mr. 
             DeSantis, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Hensarling, Mr. 
             Rokita, Mr. Chaffetz, Mr. Woodall, Mr. Renacci, Mr. 
             DesJarlais, and Mr. Mooney of West Virginia):
       H.R. 422. A bill to ensure the payment of interest and 
     principal of the debt of the United States; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. MENG (for herself, Mr. Barton, and Mr. Lance):
       H.R. 423. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to 
     expand and clarify the prohibition on provision of misleading 
     or inaccurate caller identification information, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. PETERSON (for himself, Mr. Duffy, Ms. Cheney, 
             Mr. Nolan, Mr. Emmer, Mr. Labrador, Mr. 
             Sensenbrenner, Mr. Simpson, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. 
             Gallagher, Mr. Kind, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Walberg, Mr. 
             Grothman, and Mr. Bergman):
       H.R. 424. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior to 
     reissue final rules relating to listing of the gray wolf in 
     the Western Great Lakes and Wyoming under the Endangered 
     Species Act of 1973, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself and Mr. Keating):
       H.R. 425. A bill to authorize the revocation or denial of 
     passports to individuals affiliated with foreign terrorist 
     organizations, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. RATCLIFFE (for himself, Mr. Olson, Mr. 
             Hensarling, Mr. Brady of Texas, Mr. Barletta, Mr. 
             Cramer, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. 
             Meehan, Mr. Byrne, and Mr. Moolenaar):
       H.R. 426. A bill to prohibit any regulation, rule, 
     guidance, recommendation, or policy issued after May 15, 
     2015, that limits the sale or donation of excess property of 
     the Federal Government to State and local agencies for law 
     enforcement activities, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.

[[Page H299]]

  

           By Mr. SIRES:
       H.R. 427. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     provide for the expansion, intensification, and coordination 
     of the programs and activities of the National Institutes of 
     Health with respect to Tourette syndrome; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. THORNBERRY (for himself and Mr. Cole):
       H.R. 428. A bill to survey the gradient boundary along the 
     Red River in the States of Oklahoma and Texas, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. WITTMAN:
       H.R. 429. A bill to provide that the salaries of Members of 
     a House of Congress will be held in escrow if that House has 
     not agreed to a concurrent resolution on the budget for 
     fiscal year 2018 by April 15, 2017; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Mr. YOHO (for himself, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Hill, and 
             Mr. Gohmert):
       H.R. 430. A bill to modify authorities that provide for 
     rescission of determinations of countries as state sponsors 
     of terrorism, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. KAPTUR (for herself, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. 
             Takano, Ms. Lee, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Conyers, Ms. Shea-
             Porter, Mr. Doggett, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Nadler, Mr. 
             Soto, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Peters, Mr. 
             Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
             Thompson of Mississippi, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of 
             Texas, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, Mr. 
             Courtney, Mrs. Bustos, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Speier, Mr. Pocan, Ms. 
             Pingree, and Ms. Sanchez):
       H.J. Res. 26. A joint resolution denying Congressional 
     consent for President Donald J. Trump to accept any present, 
     Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind whatever, from any 
     King, Prince, or foreign state throughout the tenure of his 
     Presidency; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia:
       H. Res. 36. A resolution electing Members to certain 
     standing committees of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia:
       H. Res. 37. A resolution providing for the attendance of 
     the House at the Inaugural Ceremonies of the President and 
     Vice President of the United States; considered and agreed 
     to.
           By Mr. CHAFFETZ:
       H. Res. 38. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that offices attached to the seat of 
     Government should not be required to exercise their offices 
     in the District of Columbia; to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. CROWLEY:
       H. Res. 39. A resolution electing a Member to a certain 
     standing Committee of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to.
           By Mrs. LAWRENCE:
       H. Res. 41. A resolution supporting a uniform adoption 
     process for foster youth; to the Committee on Education and 
     the Workforce, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr. Marino, and Mr. 
             Kilmer):
       H. Res. 42. A resolution amending the Rules of the House of 
     Representatives to provide for the consideration of reported 
     bills or joint resolutions that have not been considered by 
     the House within 60 calendar days; to the Committee on Rules.
           By Mr. WITTMAN:
       H. Res. 43. A resolution amending the Rules of the House of 
     Representatives to prohibit the consideration of a concurrent 
     resolution to provide for a recess of the House after July 31 
     of any year unless the House has approved each regular 
     appropriation bill for the next fiscal year; to the Committee 
     on Rules.

                          ____________________



