

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 46 (Thursday, March 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 46 (Thursday, March 16, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2143]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1915
                        RECOGNIZING VICTOR MARX

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Gallagher). Under the Speaker's 
announced policy of January 3, 2017, the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. 
Franks) is recognized for 60 minutes as the designee of the majority 
leader.
  Mr. FRANKS of Arizona. Mr. Speaker, Mr. Victor Marx is a man 
dedicated to spreading the great truth that even in the face of hate 
and violence, the love of God can heal even the most wounded among us. 
Victor's full life story has been chronicled in the book ``The Victor 
Marx Story'' and in a film by the same name.
  Victor's animating, faith-motivated, moral imperative to help the 
suffering has fueled the mission of All Things Possible to free 
children from abuse and the effects of its trauma.
  Therefore, Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and to commend 
Victor Marx and All Things Possible Ministries for the work they do to 
reach out and embrace traumatized individuals across the world.
  In 2015, All Things Possible launched high-risk missions to bring 
hope to those suffering abuse at the hands of evil in the Middle East. 
Victor and his team, including Dave Eubank of Free the Oppressed, 
visited Iraq to help over 300 young women and children who were 
previously held captive or traumatized by the violence of ISIS.
  In an effort to provide children with tangible comfort, ATP launched 
the Lions and Lambs project. More than 11,000 little boys and girls 
have received stuffed animals that play cultural songs and prayers in a 
language native to their region. These signs of huggable hope remind 
them that they are not forgotten by the outside world.
  In 2016, Victor and his team initiated efforts to find persecuted 
Christian families in northern Iraq and move them to safe havens in 
neighboring countries. To date, ATP has relocated more than 40 
individuals specifically targeted by ISIS for elimination, giving them 
hope for a safer, better life, and restoring their faith in the human 
spirit.
  Last year, ATP launched the third option with the goal of offering 
concrete alternatives to those vulnerable to ISIS recruitment. ATP 
unites with moderate leaders of the Islamic faith to pursue this goal. 
Recognizing Victor as a man of the book, a key leader of the Sunni 
Endowment is now working with ATP to craft a common narrative designed 
to prevent men of military age from being assimilated into ISIS.
  Mr. Speaker, the prophet Isaiah said: The wolf also shall lie down 
with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the kid; and the 
calf and the young lion and the fatling together; and a little child 
shall lead them.
  Victor Marx and All Things Possible Ministries have brought this 
powerful ministry to life in a very touching way. It should encourage 
all of us to relentlessly pursue that day when the light of hope will 
fall across all of the lonely faces of God's children all over this 
world and to that time when future generations, of those whom Jesus 
called the least of these our brothers and sisters, will be able to 
walk in the sunlight of liberty for as long as mankind inherits the 
Earth.
  Mr. Speaker, I commend Victor Marx and All Things Possible, and I 
thank them for trying to make a better world.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



