

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 21 (Tuesday, February 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 21 (Tuesday, February 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1017-H1018]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          COUNTRY BEFORE PARTY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Castro) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to voice my serious 
concern regarding President Trump's respect for, and adherence to, the 
United States Constitution. In short, something is not right at the 
White House.
  His behavior suggests that he has little regard for the judicial 
branch of our government. If the President has purposely acted in 
contradiction of a court's order, he would be in violation of the 
Constitution, and this Congress would be required to act.

[[Page H1018]]

  Today, I am filing a resolution calling for the Department of Justice 
to appoint an independent counsel to investigate whether the President 
or his staff directed, or knowingly allowed, Customs and Border 
Protection to violate court orders designed to freeze the 
implementation of the January 27 Muslim travel ban executive order.
  I strongly disagree with the contents of the executive order in 
question. It targets people based on their religion, and it instilled 
fear across the country. It violates our Nation's values and the idea 
that, in America, people aren't judged by the color of their skin or by 
the religion they practice but, instead, by their character. This plays 
right into the hands of terrorists who would use it as a recruiting 
tool around the world to inflame those who seek to do Americans harm at 
home and abroad.
  Let me be clear, though. My disapproval of the President's unfair 
executive order did not motivate the introduction of this resolution. 
This resolution concerns only the President's adherence to a judicial 
order. The question is whether he knowingly allowed Customs and Border 
Patrol to violate that order.
  I hope the investigation will find that the President and his 
administration fully complied with court orders concerning his 
executive order. However, if President Trump overstepped and purposely 
violated the judiciary, the Congress should censure him. If, after 
censure, the President again disregards our Nation's systems of checks 
and balances and separation of powers, the Congress should take steps 
to remove him from office.
  During his campaign and in the time since his election, President 
Trump has promised to be a law-and-order President. Well, the court 
system is central to upholding the law and ensuring order in our 
Nation. It represents the way that we, as Americans, peacefully and 
civilly resolve disputes. Respect for the judiciary isn't just a 
constitutional requirement for the President, it is a requirement for 
all of us.
  President Trump is no stranger to our judicial system. He spent his 
career using the courts to sue his foes and settle his broken promises. 
Now it is time for him to keep the promise he made to the American 
people when he took the oath of office last month. He must follow the 
law and abide by our Constitution.
  Defending our democracy requires vigilance and stern action. Our 
Founders wisely designed our government so that no court, no Congress, 
and no President could gain a dangerous amount of power. If we in 
Congress cede our responsibility to keep the executive in check, we 
risk being complicit in creating a constitutional crisis.
  My resolution seeks to defend our Republic and our precious founding 
documents. Each of us in Congress swore to support the Constitution.
  I urge all Members of this body to put country before party and vote 
in favor of this measure.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair will remind Members to refrain 
from improper references to the President.

                          ____________________



