

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 26 (Tuesday, February 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 26 (Tuesday, February 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1161]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. HATCH (for himself, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Tillis, 
             and Mr. Manchin):
       S. 367. A bill to amend section 3606 of title 18, United 
     States Code, to grant probation officers authority to arrest 
     hostile third parties who obstruct or impede a probation 
     officer in the performance of official duties; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FLAKE:
       S. 368. A bill to require the Director of the United States 
     Fish and Wildlife Service to issue a scientifically valid and 
     State-supported recovery plan for the Mexican gray wolf; to 
     the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself and Mr. Tillis):
       S. 369. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in awarding a 
     contract for the procurement of goods or services, to give a 
     preference to offerors that employ veterans, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mr. Lee, Mr. Paul, Mr. 
             Inhofe, and Mr. Rounds):
       S. 370. A bill to eliminate the Bureau of Consumer 
     Financial Protection by repealing title X of the Dodd-Frank 
     Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, commonly 
     known as the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010; to 
     the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. CORKER:
       S. 371. A bill to make technical changes and other 
     improvements to the Department of State Authorities Act, 
     Fiscal Year 2017; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Rubio, 
             and Ms. Hassan):
       S. 372. A bill to amend the Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure 
     that merchandise arriving through the mail shall be subject 
     to review by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and to 
     require the provision of advance electronic information on 
     shipments of mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. HATCH:
       S. 373. A bill to require the Secretary of Defense to 
     submit to Congress a report on hearing loss, tinnitus, and 
     noise pollution due to small arms fire; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Mr. Nelson):
       S. 374. A bill to enable concrete masonry products 
     manufacturers to establish, finance, and carry out a 
     coordinated program of research, education, and promotion to 
     improve, maintain, and develop markets for concrete masonry 
     products; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr. Cruz, Mr. Boozman, Mr. 
             Crapo, Mr. Flake, Mr. Roberts, and Mr. Wicker):
       S. 375. A bill to amend the Endangered Species Act of 1973 
     to establish a procedure for approval of certain settlements; 
     to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr. Cruz, Mr. Crapo, Mr. 
             Daines, Mr. Flake, and Mr. Roberts):
       S. 376. A bill to amend the Endangered Species Act of 1973 
     to require publication on the Internet of the basis for 
     determinations that species are endangered species or 
     threatened species, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Kaine, and 
             Mr. Gardner):
       S. 377. A bill to amend the Trafficking Victims Protection 
     Act of 2000 to clarify report dates, modify the criteria for 
     determinations of whether countries are meeting the minimum 
     standards for elimination of trafficking, and highlight the 
     importance of concrete actions by countries to eliminate 
     trafficking, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr. Grassley, Mr. Flake, 
             Mr. Risch, and Mr. Enzi):
       S. 378. A bill to amend titles 5 and 28, United States 
     Code, to require the maintenance of databases on awards of 
     fees and other expenses to prevailing parties in certain 
     administrative proceedings and court cases to which the 
     United States is a party, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



