

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 17 (Wednesday, February 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 17 (Wednesday, February 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S595]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND SENATE RESOLUTIONS

  The following concurrent resolutions and Senate resolutions were 
read, and referred (or acted upon), as indicated:

           By Mr. ROBERTS:
       S. Res. 30. An original resolution authorizing expenditures 
     by the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry; 
     from the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry; 
     to the Committee on Rules and Administration.
           By Ms. COLLINS:
       S. Res. 31. An original resolution authorizing the 
     expenditures by the Special Committee on Aging; from the 
     Special Committee on Aging; to the Committee on Rules and 
     Administration.
           By Mr. RISCH:
       S. Res. 32. An original resolution authorizing expenditures 
     by the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship; from 
     the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship; to the 
     Committee on Rules and Administration.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI:
       S. Res. 33. An original resolution authorizing expenditures 
     by the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources; from the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources; to the Committee 
     on Rules and Administration.
           By Mr. JOHNSON:
       S. Res. 34. An original resolution authorizing expenditures 
     by the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs; from the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs; to the Committee on Rules and 
     Administration.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Durbin, Mr. 
             Cotton, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Nelson, Mr. 
             Gardner, Mr. Kaine, and Mr. Perdue):
       S. Res. 35. A resolution expressing profound concern about 
     the ongoing political, economic, social and humanitarian 
     crisis in Venezuela, urging the release of political 
     prisoners, and calling for respect of constitutional and 
     democratic processes, including free and fair elections; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. HOEVEN:
       S. Res. 36. An original resolution authorizing expenditures 
     by the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs; from the Committee 
     on Indian Affairs; to the Committee on Rules and 
     Administration.
           By Mr. CORKER:
       S. Res. 37. An original resolution authorizing expenditures 
     by the Committee on Foreign Relations; from the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations; to the Committee on Rules and 
     Administration.
           By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Wyden, Mr. 
             Booker, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Brown, Mr. Whitehouse, Ms. 
             Cantwell, Ms. Warren, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Merkley, 
             Mr. Kaine, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Coons, and Mr. Durbin):
       S. Res. 38. A resolution recognizing January 30, 2017, as 
     ``Fred Korematsu Day of Civil Liberties and the 
     Constitution''; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ALEXANDER:
       S. Res. 39. An original resolution authorizing expenditures 
     by the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions; 
     from the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions; 
     to the Committee on Rules and Administration.
           By Ms. HEITKAMP (for herself, Mr. Lankford, Ms. 
             Stabenow, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Udall, Mr. 
             Thune, Mr. Moran, Mr. Tester, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. 
             Daines, Mr. Hoeven, Ms. Klobuchar, Mrs. Murray, Mr. 
             Franken, Mr. Peters, Ms. Hirono, and Mr. Barrasso):
       S. Res. 40. A resolution designating the week beginning on 
     February 5, 2017, as ``National Tribal Colleges and 
     Universities Week''; considered and agreed to.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr. Perdue, Ms. Hirono, 
             Mr. Crapo, and Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. Res. 41. A resolution raising awareness and encouraging 
     the prevention of stalking by designating January 2017 as 
     ``National Stalking Awareness Month''; considered and agreed 
     to.

                          ____________________



