

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 26 (Tuesday, February 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 26 (Tuesday, February 14, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1179-H1182]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     PUBLICATION OF COMMITTEE RULES


  Rules of the Committee on Financial Services for the 115th Congress

                                         House of Representatives,


                              Committee on Financial Services,

                                Washington, DC, February 14, 2017.
     Hon. Paul Ryan,
     Speaker of the House,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Speaker: I submit for publication the attached 
     copy of the rules of the Committee on Financial Services of 
     the U.S. House of Representatives as adopted on February 2, 
     2017, for the 115th Congress.
           Sincerely,
                                                   Jeb Hensarling,
                                                         Chairman.

                                 Rule 1


                           General Provisions

       (a) The rules of the House are the rules of the Committee 
     on Financial Services (hereinafter in these rules referred to 
     as the ``Committee'') and its subcommittees so far as 
     applicable, except that a motion to recess from day to day, 
     and a motion to dispense with the first reading (in full) of 
     a bill or resolution, if printed copies are available, are 
     privileged motions in the Committee and shall be considered 
     without debate. A proposed investigative or oversight report 
     shall be considered as read if it has been available to the 
     members of the Committee for at least 24 hours (excluding 
     Saturdays, Sundays, or legal holidays except when the House 
     is in session on such day).
       (b) Each subcommittee is a part of the Committee, and is 
     subject to the authority and direction of the Committee and 
     to its rules so far as applicable
       (c) The provisions of clause 2 of rule XI of the Rules of 
     the House are incorporated by reference as the rules of the 
     Committee to the extent applicable.

                                 Rule 2


                                MEETINGS

                          Calling of Meetings

       (a)(1) The Committee shall regularly meet on the first 
     Tuesday of each month when the House is in session.
       (2) A regular meeting of the Committee may be dispensed 
     with if, in the judgment of the Chairman of the Committee 
     (hereinafter in these rules referred to as the ``Chair''), 
     there is no need for the meeting.
       (3) Additional regular meetings and hearings of the 
     Committee may be called by the Chair, in accordance with 
     clause 2(g)(3) of rule XI of the rules of the House.
       (4) Special meetings shall be called and convened by the 
     Chair as provided in clause 2(c)(2) of rule XI of the Rules 
     of the House.

                          Notice for Meetings

       (b)(1) The Chair shall notify each member of the Committee 
     of the agenda of each regular meeting of the Committee at 
     least three calendar days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and 
     legal holidays except when the House is in session on any 
     such day) before the time of the meeting.
       (2) The Chair shall provide to each member of the 
     Committee, at least three calendar days (excluding Saturdays, 
     Sundays, and legal holidays except when the House is in 
     session on any such day) before the time of each regular 
     meeting for each measure or matter on the agenda a copy of--
       (A) the measure or materials relating to the matter in 
     question; and
       (B) an explanation of the measure or matter to be 
     considered, which, in the case of an explanation of a bill, 
     resolution, or similar measure, shall include a summary of 
     the major provisions of the legislation, an explanation of 
     the relationship of the measure to present law, and a summary 
     of the need for the legislation.
       (3) At least 24 hours prior to the commencement of a 
     meeting for the markup of legislation, the Chair shall cause 
     the text of such legislation to be made publicly available in 
     electronic form.
       (4) The provisions of this subsection may be waived by a 
     two- thirds vote of the Committee or by the Chair with the 
     concurrence of the ranking minority member.

                                 Rule 3


                     MEETING AND HEARING PROCEDURES

                               In General

       (a)(1) Meetings and hearings of the Committee shall be 
     called to order and presided over by the Chair or, in the 
     Chair's absence, by a member designated by the Chair to carry 
     out such duties.
       (2) Meetings and hearings of the Committee shall be open to 
     the public unless closed in accordance with clause 2(g) of 
     rule XI of the Rules of the House.
       (3) Any meeting or hearing of the Committee that is open to 
     the public shall be open to coverage by television broadcast, 
     radio broadcast, and still photography in accordance with the 
     provisions of clause 4 of rule XI of the Rules of the House 
     (which are incorporated by reference as part of these rules). 
     Operation and use of any Committee operated broadcast system 
     shall be fair and nonpartisan and in accordance with clause 
     4(b) of rule XI and all other applicable rules of the 
     Committee and the House.
       (4) To the extent feasible, members and witnesses may use 
     the Committee equipment for the purpose of presenting 
     information electronically during a meeting or hearing, 
     provided the information is transmitted to the appropriate 
     Committee staff in an appropriate electronic format at least 
     one business day before the meeting or hearing so as to 
     ensure display capacity and quality. The content of all 
     materials must relate to the pending business of the 
     Committee and conform to the rules of the House. The 
     confidentiality of the material will be maintained by the 
     technical staff until its official presentation to the 
     Committee members. For the purposes of maintaining the 
     official records of the committee, printed copies of all 
     materials presented, to the extent practicable, must 
     accompany the presentations.
       (5) No person, other than a Member of Congress, Committee 
     staff, or an employee of a Member when that Member has an 
     amendment under consideration, may stand in or be seated at 
     the rostrum area of the Committee rooms unless the Chair 
     determines otherwise.

                                 Quorum

        (b)(1) For the purpose of taking testimony and receiving 
     evidence, two members of the Committee shall constitute a 
     quorum.
       (2) A majority of the members of the Committee shall 
     constitute a quorum for the purposes of reporting any measure 
     or matter, of

[[Page H1180]]

     authorizing a subpoena (other than a subpoena authorized and 
     issued by the Chair pursuant to subsection (e)(1)), of 
     closing a meeting or hearing pursuant to clause 2(g) of rule 
     XI of the Rules of the House (except as provided in clause 
     2(g)(2)(A) and (B)) or of releasing executive session 
     material pursuant to clause 2(k)(7) of rule XI of the Rules 
     of the House.
       (3) For the purpose of taking any action other than those 
     specified in paragraph (2) one-third of the members of the 
     Committee shall constitute a quorum.

                                 Voting

       (c)(1) No vote may be conducted on any measure or matter 
     pending before the Committee unless the requisite number of 
     members of the Committee is actually present for such 
     purpose.
       (2) A record vote of the Committee shall be provided on any 
     question before the Committee upon the request of one-fifth 
     of the members present.
       (3) No vote by any member of the Committee on any measure 
     or matter may be cast by proxy.
       (4) In addition to any other requirement of these rules or 
     the Rules of the House, including clause 2(e)(1)(B) of rule 
     XI, the Chair shall make the record of the votes on any 
     question on which a record vote is demanded publicly 
     available for inspection at the offices of the Committee and 
     in electronic form on the Committee's Web site not later than 
     one business day after such vote is taken. Such record shall 
     include in electronic form the text of the amendment, motion, 
     order, or other proposition, the name of each member voting 
     for and each member voting against such amendment, motion, 
     order, or proposition, and the names of those members of the 
     Committee present but not voting. With respect to any record 
     vote on any motion to report or record vote on any amendment, 
     a record of such votes shall be included in the report of the 
     Committee showing the total number of votes cast for and 
     against and the names of those members of the committee 
     present but not voting.
       (5) Postponed Record Votes.--(A) Subject to subparagraph 
     (B), the Chairman may postpone further proceedings when a 
     record vote is ordered on the question of approving any 
     measure or matter or adopting an amendment. The Chairman may 
     resume proceedings on a postponed request at any time, but no 
     later than the next meeting day.
       (B) In exercising postponement authority under subparagraph 
     (A), the Chairman shall take all reasonable steps necessary 
     to notify members on the resumption of proceedings on any 
     postponed record vote.
       (C) When proceedings resume on a postponed question, 
     notwithstanding any intervening order for the previous 
     question, an underlying proposition shall remain subject to 
     further debate or amendment to the same extent as when the 
     question was postponed.
       (D) The Chair's authority to postpone recorded votes will 
     not be used to prejudice a member with regard to the offering 
     of another amendment. In the application of this rule, the 
     Chair will consult regularly with the ranking minority member 
     regarding the scheduling of the resumption of postponed 
     votes.

                           Hearing Procedures

       (d)(1)(A) The Chair shall make public announcement of the 
     date, place, and subject matter of any committee hearing at 
     least one week before the commencement of the hearing, unless 
     the Chair, with the concurrence of the ranking minority 
     member, or the Committee by majority vote with a quorum 
     present for the transaction of business, determines there is 
     good cause to begin the hearing sooner, in which case the 
     Chair shall make the announcement at the earliest possible 
     date.
       (B) Not less than three days before the commencement of a 
     hearing (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays 
     except when the House is in session on any such day) 
     announced under this paragraph, the Chair shall provide to 
     the members of the Committee a concise summary of the subject 
     of the hearing, or, in the case of a hearing on a measure or 
     matter, a copy of the measure or materials relating to the 
     matter in question and a concise explanation of the measure 
     or matter to be considered. At the same time the Chair 
     provides the information required by the preceding sentence, 
     the Chair shall also provide to the members of the Committee 
     a list of the witnesses expected to appear before the 
     Committee at that hearing. The witness list may not be 
     modified within 24 hours of a hearing, unless the Chair, with 
     the concurrence of the ranking minority member, determines 
     there is good cause for such modification.
       (2) To the greatest extent practicable--
       (A) each witness who is to appear before the Committee 
     shall file with the Committee two business days in advance of 
     the appearance sufficient copies (including a copy in 
     electronic form), as determined by the Chair, of a written 
     statement of proposed testimony and shall limit the oral 
     presentation to the Committee to brief summary thereof; and
       (B) each witness appearing in a non-governmental capacity 
     shall include with the written statement of proposed 
     testimony a curriculum vitae and a disclosure of the amount 
     and source (by agency and program) of any Federal grant (or 
     subgrant thereof) or contract (or subcontract thereof) 
     received during the current fiscal year or either of the two 
     preceding fiscal years. Such disclosure statements, with 
     appropriate redactions to protect the privacy of the witness, 
     shall be made publicly available in electronic form not later 
     than one day after the witness appears.
       (3) The requirements of paragraph (2)(A) may be modified or 
     waived by the Chair when the Chair determines it to be in the 
     best interest of the Committee.
       (4)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), the five-minute rule 
     shall be observed in the interrogation of witnesses before 
     the Committee or any of its subcommittees until each present 
     member thereof has had an opportunity to question the 
     witnesses. No member shall be recognized for a second period 
     of five minutes to interrogate witnesses until each present 
     member of the Committee or such subcommittee has been 
     recognized once for that purpose.
       (B) The Chair may permit a specified number of members to 
     question one or more witnesses for a specified period of time 
     not to exceed 60 minutes in the aggregate, equally divided 
     between and controlled by the Chair and the ranking minority 
     member.
       (5) Whenever any hearing is conducted by the Committee on 
     any measure or matter, the minority party members of the 
     Committee shall be entitled, upon the request of a majority 
     of them before the completion of the hearing, to call 
     witnesses with respect to that measure or matter during at 
     least one day of hearing thereon. The Chair, with the 
     concurrence of the ranking minority member, will determine 
     the date, time, and place of such hearing.
       (6) At any hearing of the Committee, opening statements by 
     members of the Committee shall be limited to 10 minutes in 
     the aggregate. The Chair shall control five minutes and 
     recognize members in the Chair's sole discretion. The ranking 
     minority member shall control five minutes; the Chair shall 
     recognize members for such five minutes according to the 
     direction of the ranking minority member as communicated to 
     the Chair.
       (7) Notwithstanding any member's oral delivery of an 
     opening statement, written opening statements by any member 
     of the Committee submitted to the Chair within 5 legislative 
     days after the adjournment of a hearing shall be made a part 
     of the official hearing record thereof

                          Subpoenas and Oaths

       (e)(1) The power to authorize and issue subpoenas is 
     delegated to the Chair. The Chair will provide written notice 
     to the ranking minority member at least 48 hours in advance 
     of the authorization and issuance of a subpoena, except when 
     exigent circumstances exist that do not permit such amount of 
     notice, in which case the Chair shall provide such notice as 
     soon as possible.
       (2) Authorized subpoenas shall be signed by the Chair or by 
     any member designated by the Committee, and may be served by 
     any person designated by the Chair or such member.
       (3) The Chair, or any member of the Committee designated by 
     the Chair, may administer oaths to witnesses before the 
     Committee.

                                 Rule 4


              Procedures for Reporting Measures or Matters

       (a) No measure or matter shall be reported from the 
     Committee unless a majority of the Committee is actually 
     present.
       (b) The Chair of the Committee shall report or cause to be 
     reported promptly to the House any measure approved by the 
     Committee and take necessary steps to bring a matter to a 
     vote.
       (c) The report of the Committee on a measure which has been 
     approved by the Committee shall be filed within seven 
     calendar days (exclusive of days on which the House is not in 
     session) after the day on which there has been filed with the 
     clerk of the Committee a written request, signed by a 
     majority of the members of the Committee, for the reporting 
     of that measure pursuant to the provisions of clause 2(b)(2) 
     of rule XIII of the Rules of the House.
       (d) All reports printed by the Committee pursuant to a 
     legislative study or investigation and not approved by a 
     majority vote of the Committee shall contain the following 
     disclaimer on the cover of such report: ``This report has not 
     been officially adopted by the Committee on Financial 
     Services and may not necessarily reflect the views of its 
     Members.''
       (e) The Chair is directed to offer a motion under clause 1 
     of rule XXII of the Rules of the House whenever the Chair 
     considers it appropriate.

                                 Rule 5


                             Subcommittees

          Establishment and Responsibilities of Subcommittees

       (a)(1) There shall be six subcommittees of the Committee as 
     follows:
       (A) Subcommittee on capital markets, securities, and 
     investment.--The jurisdiction of the Subcommittee on Capital 
     Markets, Securities, and Investment includes--
       (i) securities, exchanges, and finance;
       (ii) capital markets activities, including securitization, 
     business capital formation, securities lending, and 
     repurchase agreements;
       (iii) investment companies and advisers to private funds;
       (iv) activities involving accounting and auditing;
       (v) activities involving futures, forwards, options, and 
     other types of derivative instruments;

[[Page H1181]]

       (vi) the Securities and Exchange Commission;
       (vii) the Financial Accounting Standards Board;
       (viii) the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board;
       (ix) the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board;
       (x) the Securities Investor Protection Corporation; and
       (xi) self-regulatory organizations registered with the 
     Securities and Exchange Commission.
       (B) Subcommittee on financial institutions and consumer 
     credit.-- The jurisdiction of the Subcommittee on Financial 
     Institutions and Consumer Credit includes--
       (i) all agencies, including the Office of the Comptroller 
     of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
     the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the 
     Federal Reserve System, and the National Credit Union 
     Administration, which directly or indirectly exercise 
     supervisory or regulatory authority in connection with, or 
     provide deposit insurance for, financial institutions, and 
     the establishment of interest rate ceilings on deposits;
       (ii) all matters related to the Bureau of Consumer 
     Financial Protection;
       (iii) the chartering, branching, merger, acquisition, 
     consolidation, or conversion of financial institutions;
       (iv) consumer credit, including the provision of consumer 
     credit by insurance companies, and further including those 
     matters in the Consumer Credit Protection Act dealing with 
     truth in lending, extortionate credit transactions, 
     restrictions on garnishments, fair credit reporting and the 
     use of credit information by credit bureaus and credit 
     providers, equal credit opportunity, debt collection 
     practices, and electronic funds transfers, including consumer 
     transactions using mobile devices;
       (v) creditor remedies and debtor defenses, Federal aspects 
     of the Uniform Consumer Credit Code, credit and debit cards, 
     and the preemption of State usury laws;
       (vi) consumer access to financial services, including the 
     Home Mortgage Disclosure Act and the Community Reinvestment 
     Act;
       (vii) the terms and rules of disclosure of financial 
     services, including the advertisement, promotion and pricing 
     of financial services, and availability of government check 
     cashing services;
       (viii) deposit insurance; and
       (ix) consumer access to savings accounts and checking 
     accounts in financial institutions, including lifeline 
     banking and other consumer accounts.
       (C) Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance.--The 
     jurisdiction of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance 
     includes--
       (i) insurance generally; terrorism risk insurance; private 
     mortgage insurance; government sponsored insurance programs, 
     including those offering protection against crime, fire, 
     flood (and related land use controls), earthquake and other 
     natural hazards; the Federal Insurance Office;
       (ii) housing (except programs administered by the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs), including mortgage and loan 
     insurance pursuant to the National Housing Act; rural 
     housing; housing and homeless assistance programs; all 
     activities of the Government National Mortgage Association; 
     secondary market organizations for home mortgages, including 
     the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home 
     Loan Mortgage Corporation, and the Federal Agricultural 
     Mortgage Corporation; the Federal Housing Finance Agency; the 
     Federal Home Loan Banks; housing construction and design and 
     safety standards; housing-related energy conservation; 
     housing research and demonstration programs; financial and 
     technical assistance for nonprofit housing sponsors; housing 
     counseling and technical assistance; regulation of the 
     housing industry (including landlord/tenant relations); and 
     real estate lending including regulation of settlement 
     procedures;
       (iii) community development and community and neighborhood 
     planning, training and research; national urban growth 
     policies; urban/rural research and technologies; and 
     regulation of interstate land sales; and,
       (iv) the qualifications for and designation of Empowerment 
     Zones and Enterprise Communities (other than matters relating 
     to tax benefits).
       (D) Subcommittee on Monetary Policy and Trade.--The 
     jurisdiction of the Subcommittee on Monetary Policy and Trade 
     includes--
       (i) financial aid to all sectors and elements within the 
     economy;
       (ii) economic growth and stabilization;
       (iii) defense production matters as contained in the 
     Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended;
       (iv) domestic monetary policy, and agencies which directly 
     or indirectly affect domestic monetary policy, including the 
     effect of such policy and other financial actions on interest 
     rates, the allocation of credit, and the structure and 
     functioning of domestic financial institutions;
       (v) coins, coinage, currency, and medals, including 
     commemorative coins and medals, proof and mint sets and other 
     special coins, the Coinage Act of 1965, gold and silver, 
     including the coinage thereof (but not the par value of 
     gold), gold medals, counterfeiting, currency denominations 
     and design, the distribution of coins, and the operations of 
     the Bureau of the Mint and the Bureau of Engraving and 
     Printing;
       (vi) development of new or alternative forms of currency;
       (vii) multilateral development lending institutions, 
     including activities of the National Advisory Council on 
     International Monetary and Financial Policies as related 
     thereto, and monetary and financial developments as they 
     relate to the activities and objectives of such institutions;
       (viii) international trade, including but not limited to 
     the activities of the Export-Import Bank;
       (ix) the International Monetary Fund, its permanent and 
     temporary agencies, and all matters related thereto; and
       (x) international investment policies, both as they relate 
     to United States investments for trade purposes by citizens 
     of the United States and investments made by all foreign 
     entities in the United States.
       (E) Subcommittee on Terrorism and Illicit Finance.--The 
     jurisdiction of the Subcommittee on Terrorism and Illicit 
     Finance includes--
       (i) financial support networks of national security 
     threats, including matters related to terrorist financing, 
     money laundering, drug sale proceeds, and alternative 
     remittance systems;
       (ii) methods to detect and inhibit terrorism and illicit 
     finance, including matters related to anti-money laundering 
     and combating the financing of terrorism (AML/CFT) standards, 
     asset forfeiture, and financial sanctions, as well as 
     programs related to such matters administered by agencies or 
     subunits thereof, including activities of the Office of 
     Terrorism and Financial Intelligence and the Financial Crimes 
     Enforcement Network; and
       (iii) Inter-governmental initiatives to detect and inhibit 
     terrorism and illicit finance, including the Financial Action 
     Task Force.
       (F) Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.--The 
     jurisdiction of the Subcommittee on Oversight and 
     Investigations includes--
       (i) the oversight of all agencies, departments, programs, 
     and matters within the jurisdiction of the Committee, 
     including the development of recommendations with regard to 
     the necessity or desirability of enacting, changing, or 
     repealing any legislation within the jurisdiction of the 
     Committee, and for conducting investigations within such 
     jurisdiction; and
       (ii) research and analysis regarding matters within the 
     jurisdiction of the Committee, including the impact or 
     probable impact of tax policies affecting matters within the 
     jurisdiction of the Committee.
       (2) In addition, each such subcommittee shall have specific 
     responsibility for such other measures or matters as the 
     Chair refers to it.
       (3) Each subcommittee of the Committee shall review and 
     study, on a continuing basis, the application, 
     administration, execution, and effectiveness of those laws, 
     or parts of laws, the subject matter of which is within its 
     general responsibility.

           Referral of Measures and Matters to Subcommittees

       (b)(1) The Chair shall regularly refer to one or more 
     subcommittees such measures and matters as the Chair deems 
     appropriate given its jurisdiction and responsibilities. In 
     making such a referral, the Chair may designate a 
     subcommittee of primary jurisdiction and subcommittees of 
     additional or sequential jurisdiction.
       (2) All other measures or matters shall be subject to 
     consideration by the full Committee.
       (3) In referring any measure or matter to a subcommittee, 
     the Chair may specify a date by which the subcommittee shall 
     report thereon to the Committee.
       (4) The Chair, in his or her sole discretion, may discharge 
     a subcommittee from consideration of it any measure or matter 
     referred to a subcommittee of the Committee.

                      Composition of Subcommittees

       (c)(1) Members shall be elected to each subcommittee and to 
     the positions of chair and ranking minority member thereof, 
     in accordance with the rules of the respective party 
     caucuses. The Chair of the Committee shall designate a member 
     of the majority party on each subcommittee as its vice chair. 
     The Chair may designate one member of the Committee who 
     previously has served as the chairman of the Committee as the 
     Chairman Emeritus.
       (2) The Chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
     shall be ex officio members with voting privileges of each 
     subcommittee of which they are not assigned as members and 
     may be counted for purposes of establishing a quorum in such 
     subcommittees. The Chairman Emeritus shall be an ex officio 
     member without voting privileges of each subcommittee to 
     which he or she is not assigned and shall not count for 
     purposes of establishing a quorum in such subcommittees.
       (3) The subcommittees shall be comprised as follows:
       (A) The Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Securities, and 
     Investment shall be comprised of 28 members, 16 elected by 
     the majority caucus and 12 elected by the minority caucus.
       (B) The Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer 
     Credit shall be comprised of 26 members, 15 elected by the 
     majority caucus and 11 elected by the minority caucus.
       (C) The Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance shall be 
     comprised of 23 members, 13 elected by the majority caucus 
     and 10 elected by the minority caucus.

[[Page H1182]]

       (D) The Subcommittee on Monetary Policy and Trade shall be 
     comprised of 21 members, 12 elected by the majority caucus 
     and 9 elected by the minority caucus.
       (E) The Subcommittee on Terrorism and Illicit Finance shall 
     be comprised of 25 members, 14 elected by the majority caucus 
     and 11 elected by the minority caucus.
       (F) The Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations shall 
     be comprised of 21 members, 12 elected by the majority caucus 
     and 9 elected by the minority caucus.

                   Subcommittee Meetings and Hearings

       (d)(1) Each subcommittee of the Committee is authorized to 
     meet, hold hearings, receive testimony, mark up legislation, 
     and report to the full Committee on any measure or matter 
     referred to it, consistent with subsection (a).
       (2) No subcommittee of the Committee may meet or hold a 
     hearing at the same time as a meeting or hearing of the 
     Committee.
       (3) The chair of each subcommittee shall set hearing and 
     meeting dates only with the approval of the Chair with a view 
     toward assuring the availability of meeting rooms and 
     avoiding simultaneous scheduling of Committee and 
     subcommittee meetings or hearings.

                          Effect of a Vacancy

       (e) Any vacancy in the membership of a subcommittee shall 
     not affect the power of the remaining members to execute the 
     functions of the subcommittee as long as the required quorum 
     is present.

                                Records

       (f) Each subcommittee of the Committee shall provide the 
     full Committee with copies of such records of votes taken in 
     the subcommittee and such other records with respect to the 
     subcommittee as the Chair deems necessary for the Committee 
     to comply with all rules and regulations of the House.

                                 Rule 6


                                 Staff

                               In General

       (a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
     professional and other staff of the Committee shall be 
     appointed, and may be removed by the Chair, and shall work 
     under the general supervision and direction of the Chair.
       (2) All professional and other staff provided to the 
     minority party members of the Committee shall be appointed, 
     and may be removed, by the ranking minority member of the 
     Committee, and shall work under the general supervision and 
     direction of such member.
       (3) It is intended that the skills and experience of all 
     members of the Committee staff be available to all members of 
     the Committee.

                           Subcommittee Staff

       (b) From funds made available for the appointment of staff, 
     the Chair of the Committee shall, pursuant to clause 6(d) of 
     rule X of the Rules of the House, ensure that sufficient 
     staff is made available so that each subcommittee can carry 
     out its responsibilities under the rules of the Committee and 
     that the minority party is treated fairly in the appointment 
     of such staff.

                         Compensation of Staff

       (c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Chair shall 
     fix the compensation of all professional and other staff of 
     the Committee.
       (2) The ranking minority member shall fix the compensation 
     of all professional and other staff provided to the minority 
     party members of the Committee.

                                 Rule 7


                           Budget and Travel

                                 Budget

       (a)(1) The Chair, in consultation with other members of the 
     Committee, shall prepare for each Congress a budget providing 
     amounts for staff, necessary travel, investigation, and other 
     expenses of the Committee and its subcommittees.
       (2) From the amount provided to the Committee in the 
     primary expense resolution adopted by the House of 
     Representatives, the Chair, after consultation with the 
     ranking minority member, shall designate an amount to be 
     under the direction of the ranking minority member for the 
     compensation of the minority staff, travel expenses of 
     minority members and staff, and minority office expenses. All 
     expenses of minority members and staff shall be paid for out 
     of the amount so set aside.

                                 Travel

       (b)(1) The Chair may authorize travel for any member and 
     any staff member of the Committee in connection with 
     activities or subject matters under the general jurisdiction 
     of the Committee. Before such authorization is granted, there 
     shall be submitted to the Chair in writing the following:
       (A) The purpose of the travel.
       (B) The dates during which the travel is to occur.
       (C) The names of the States or countries to be visited and 
     the length of time to be spent in each.
       (D) The names of members and staff of the Committee for 
     whom the authorization is sought.
       (2) Members and staff of the Committee shall make a written 
     report to the Chair on any travel they have conducted under 
     this subsection, including a description of their itinerary, 
     expenses, and activities, and of pertinent information gained 
     as a result of such travel.
       (3) Members and staff of the Committee performing 
     authorized travel on official business shall be governed by 
     applicable laws, resolutions, and regulations of the House 
     and of the Committee on House Administration.

                                 Rule 8


                        Committee Administration

                                Records

       (a)(1) There shall be a transcript made of each regular 
     meeting and hearing of the Committee, and the transcript may 
     be printed if the Chair decides it is appropriate or if a 
     majority of the members of the Committee requests such 
     printing. Any such transcripts shall be a substantially 
     verbatim account of remarks actually made during the 
     proceedings, subject only to technical, grammatical, and 
     typographical corrections authorized by the person making the 
     remarks. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to 
     require that all such transcripts be subject to correction 
     and publication.
       (2) The Committee shall keep a record of all actions of the 
     Committee and of its subcommittees. The record shall contain 
     all information required by clause 2(e)(1) of rule XI of the 
     Rules of the House and shall be available in electronic form 
     and for public inspection at reasonable times in the offices 
     of the Committee.
       (3) All Committee hearings, records, data, charts, and 
     files shall be kept separate and distinct from the 
     congressional office records of the Chair, shall be the 
     property of the House, and all Members of the House shall 
     have access thereto as provided in clause 2(e)(2) of rule XI 
     of the Rules of the House.
       (4) The records of the Committee at the National Archives 
     and Records Administration shall be made available for public 
     use in accordance with rule VII of the Rules of the House of 
     Representatives. The Chair shall notify the ranking minority 
     member of any decision, pursuant to clause 3(b)(3) or clause 
     4(b) of the rule, to withhold a record otherwise available, 
     and the matter shall be presented to the Committee for a 
     determination on written request of any member of the 
     Committee.

                 Committee Publications on the Internet

       (b) The Chair shall maintain an official Committee website 
     for the purpose of carrying out the official responsibilities 
     of the Committee, including communicating information about 
     the Committee's activities. The ranking minority member may 
     maintain an official website. To the maximum extent feasible, 
     the Committee shall make its publications available in 
     electronic form on the official Committee website maintained 
     by the Chair.

      Audio and Video Coverage of Committee Hearings and Meetings

       (c)(1) To the maximum extent feasible, the Committee shall 
     provide audio and video coverage of each hearing or meeting 
     for the transaction of business in a manner that allows the 
     public to easily 24 listen to and view the proceedings; and,
       (2) maintain the recordings of such coverage in a manner 
     that is easily accessible to the public.

                          ____________________



