

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 58 (Tuesday, April 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2422-S2423]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                RECOGNIZING THE PEOPLE OF LIBBY, MONTANA

 Mr. DAINES Mr. President, this week I would like to recognize 
the people of Libby, MT, for their resiliency and strength in 
confronting economic, environmental, and public health challenges. This 
week is National Asbestos Awareness Week, and the people of Libby are 
perhaps the most acutely aware community in our Nation when it comes to 
understanding asbestos related menaces. As the seat of Lincoln County, 
Libby has persevered through a lengthy process of identifying and 
removing threats to public health and has emerged ready to share the 
treasures of northwestern Montana.
  A few miles outside of Libby, nearly a century ago, a vermiculite ore 
mine began operations. At one point, this mine accounted for a large 
portion of total global vermiculite production. Unknown to the people 
of Libby, the local vermiculite also contained a toxic form of 
asbestos, Libby Amphibole asbestos. The Libby mine was eventually 
closed in 1990, and Libby was designated as a Superfund site by the 
Environmental Protection Agency in 2002. The asbestos identification 
and cleanup process has been extensive. Last week marked the successful 
conclusion for submitting new requests to the EPA for identification 
and cleanup of impacted sites. As the environmental cleanup process 
draws to a close, we must not lose sight of the continued healthcare 
requirements for Libby residents and the truly unique challenges they 
face in improving their quality of life.

[[Page S2423]]

  Eight years ago, former U.S. Senator Max Baucus led the charge to 
ensure that three essential functions were established to help the 
people of Libby. These functions included screening for asbestos 
related diseases, healthcare for conditions caused by asbestos 
exposure, and a program to assist patients with unique services due to 
asbestos exposure. These vital programs, specifically designed to help 
those most in need, are essential and must be preserved. With these 
tools available, over 4,000 individuals have been screened and over 
2,000 individuals have been diagnosed with asbestos related diseases. 
On March 6, I sent a letter to Speaker of the House Paul Ryan and 
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to preserve these tools for the 
people of Libby. The latency period for diseases related to asbestos 
exposure can be decades into the future. Long after the environmental 
and economic impacts have been overcome, the human impact in Libby will 
continue. As the debate over healthcare ebbs and flows, the essential 
protections for the people of Libby must remain intact.
  The Center for Asbestos Related Disease, known locally as the CARD 
clinic, is a vital nonprofit resource located in Libby that helps with 
identification, treatment, and research for those with asbestos 
exposure. The tools championed by Senator Baucus are vital to the 
success of a community resource like the CARD clinic. As the Senator 
who now serves the people of Montana from Senator Baucus's old seat, it 
is my duty to continue to fight for the people of Libby.
  To understand the impact these programs have on the daily lives of 
people in the area, it makes sense to listen to their personal 
experiences. Lynn Sather-Diller said the CARD clinic has helped ``me to 
stay as healthy as possible even though I have an asbestos related 
disease. I wouldn't be able to do it without their help.''
  The basic activity of breathing, something many of us simply take for 
granted, is a daily concern and immense priority for those with 
asbestos related diseases.
  Angie Hill added, ``Asbestos related disease is life changing. Hard 
to say in only a few words, our exposure started in our childhood & is 
so scary when you struggle to breath. We are thankful for the 
exceptional medical care & educational information the CARD center, Dr. 
Brad Black & his staff provide to it's patients.'' Echoing those 
sentiments was Judy Lundstrom: ``You helped with exams and I am on 
night oxygen and feel much better so can continue my job. I am able to 
stay in my own home because Dr. Black and Tanis helped.''
  These examples show the strength of the people of Libby. This region 
will continue to find ways to reach its potential. Like the rest of 
Montana, Libby is blessed with awe-inspiring beauty and immense natural 
resources. The Cabinet Mountain Range south of Libby has the majesty of 
a divine painting, and this masterpiece will always draw travelers to 
the region. The soon to open Montanore Mine will be a major producer of 
copper and silver. The Kootenai National Forest contains significant 
timber resources. The Libby Dam to the east of town produces reliable 
energy, helping to empower the United States through energy dominance. 
The Kootenai River flows through that dam and is an engine of 
recreational activity, inviting outdoor enthusiasts from across the 
globe to explore the natural splendor of Lincoln County and gaze in 
wonder at the Kootenai Falls. As the people of Libby overcome the past 
and chart a course for the years ahead, I admire their resilient 
attitude and steadfast determination. While the hardy character and 
independent spirit of this small community in far Northwest Montana, we 
must not abandon our commitment to giving them a hand up and the tools 
necessary to succeed.

                          ____________________



