

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H468-H471]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, asfollows:

           By Mr. LEWIS of Minnesota:
       H.R. 462. A bill to amendtitle 5, United States Code, to 
     include guidance documents in the congressional review 
     process of agency

[[Page H469]]

     rulemaking; tothe Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself and Mr. Chabot):
       H.R. 463. A bill to prohibit United States Government 
     recognition of Russia's annexation ofCrimea; to the Committee 
     on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself, Mr. Poe ofTexas, Ms. 
             Castor of Florida, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Lynch, Mr. Nadler, Ms. Norton,Mr. Quigley, and Mr. 
             Yarmuth):
       H.R. 464. A bill to permit the televising of SupremeCourt 
     proceedings; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GIBBS (for himself and Mr.Chabot):
       H.R. 465. A bill to amend the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act to provide for anintegrated planning and 
     permitting process, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. HULTGREN (for himself, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, 
             Mr. Mooney of West Virginia,Mr. Pittenger, Mr. 
             Guthrie, Mr. Walberg, and Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of 
             New York):
       H.R. 466. A bill to amend the Trafficking Victims 
     Protection Act of 2000 relating to determinations with 
     respectto efforts of foreign countries to reduce demand for 
     commercial sex acts under the minimum standards for the 
     elimination oftrafficking; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Mrs. WALORSKI:
       H.R. 467. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to ensure that each medical facility of the 
     Department ofVeterans Affairs complies with requirements 
     relating to scheduling veterans for health care appointments, 
     to improve the uniformapplication of directives of the 
     Department, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs, and in addition tothe Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     forconsideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr.CURBELO of Florida (for himself, Mr. Soto, Ms. 
             Pingree, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Young of Alaska, 
             Mr.Hastings, Ms. Norton, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. 
             Gaetz, Mr. Payne, Mr. Katko, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, and Mr. Diaz-Balart):
       H.R. 468. A bill to amend the OilPollution Act of 1990 to 
     impose penalties and provide for the recovery of removal 
     costs and damages in connection with certaindischarges of oil 
     from foreign offshore units, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Goodlatte, 
             Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr.Crawford, Mr. Tipton, Mr. 
             Gosar, Mr. Marino, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Latta, 
             Mr.Pearce, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Babin, Mr. Barr, Mr. 
             Yoho, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Gohmert, andMr. Cramer):
       H.R. 469. A bill to impose certain limitations on consent 
     decrees andsettlement agreements by agencies that require the 
     agencies to take regulatory action in accordance with the 
     terms thereof, andfor other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself, Mr.Huffman, Mr. Conyers, 
             and Ms. McCollum):
       H.R. 470. A bill to establish minimumstandards of fair 
     conduct in franchise sales and franchise business 
     relationships, and for other purposes; to the Committee onthe 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Conyers, 
             and Ms.McCollum):
       H.R. 471. A bill to establish minimum standards of 
     disclosure by franchises whosefranchisees use loans 
     guaranteed by the Small Business Administration; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. ISSA (for himself, Mr. Moulton, Mrs. Mimi 
             Walters of California, Mr. Calvert, Mr.Hunter, Mr. 
             Royce of California, and Mr. Rohrabacher):
       H.R. 472. A bill to amendthe Fair Housing Act to better 
     protect persons with disabilities and communities; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. ISSA (for himself and Mr. Coffman):
       H.R. 473. A billto amend title 54, United States Code, to 
     provide that if the head of the agency managing Federal 
     property objects to theinclusion of certain property on the 
     National Register or its designation as a National Historic 
     Landmark for reasons ofnational security, the Federal 
     property shall be neither included nor designated until the 
     objection is withdrawn, and for otherpurposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. ISSA (for himself, Mr. Conaway,Mr. Calvert, Mr. 
             Culberson, Mr. Young of Alaska, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Sam 
             Johnson of Texas, Mr.Carter of Texas, Ms. Bordallo, 
             Mr. Peters, Mr. Welch, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Gene Green of 
             Texas,Mr. Hunter, Mr. Bera, Mr. Neal, Mr. Courtney, 
             and Mr. Lewis of Minnesota):
       H.R. 474. A bill to amend the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 
     1982 to authorize the Secretary of Energy to enter 
     intocontracts for the storage of certain high-level 
     radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, take title to 
     certain high-levelradioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, 
     and make certain expenditures from the Nuclear Waste Fund; to 
     the Committee on Energyand Commerce.
           By Mr. ISSA (for himself, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Aderholt, 
             Mrs.Comstock, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Gohmert, 
             Mrs. Radewagen, Mr. Rohrabacher, Mr. Royce 
             ofCalifornia, Mr. Young of Alaska, and Mr. Mooney of 
             West Virginia):
       H.R. 475. A bill todesignate the exclusive economic zone of 
     the United States as the ``Ronald Wilson Reagan Exclusive 
     Economic Zone of the UnitedStates''; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. NEWHOUSE (for himself, Mr.Gohmert, Mr. 
             Hensarling, Mr. Jones, Mr. Marshall, Mr. Olson, Mrs. 
             Radewagen, and Mr.Young of Iowa):
       H.R. 476. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     clarify theemergency hospital care furnished by the Secretary 
     of Veterans Affairs to certain veterans; to the Committee on 
     Veterans'Affairs.
           By Mr. HUIZENGA (for himself, Mr. Posey, and Mr. 
             Higgins of New York):
       H.R. 477. A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 to exempt from registration brokersperforming services 
     in connection with the transfer of ownership of smaller 
     privately held companies; to the Committee onFinancial 
     Services.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself and Mr. Sherman):
       H.R. 478. A bill to require the imposition of sanctions 
     against Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, and 
     forother purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself and Mr.Sherman):
       H.R. 479. A bill to require a report on the designation of 
     the Democratic People'sRepublic of Korea as a state sponsor 
     of terrorism, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. FLORES:
       H.R. 480. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     toallow qualified scholarship funding corporations to access 
     tax-exempt financing for alternative private student loans; 
     to theCommittee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CALVERT:
       H.R. 481. A bill toamend the National Environmental Policy 
     Act of 1969 to authorize assignment to States of Federal 
     agency environmental reviewresponsibilities, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. GOSAR(for himself, Mr. Babin, Mrs. Blackburn, 
             Mr. Blum, Mr. Buck, Mr. Burgess, Mr. DesJarlais,Mr. 
             Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, 
             Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Grothman, Mr.King of Iowa, 
             Mr. Massie, Mr. McClintock, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. 
             Rohrabacher, Mr. Sessions,Mr. Smith of Missouri, Mr. 
             Webster of Florida, Mr. Yoho, and Mr. Brat):
       H.R. 482. A bill to nullify certain regulations and notices 
     of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and 
     forother purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. HUNTER (for himself, Mr.Barletta, Mr. 
             McClintock, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Allen, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
             Rohrabacher, Mr.Biggs, Mr. Babin, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. 
             Grothman, Mr. Graves of Louisiana, Mr. Cramer, and 
             Mr.Brat):
       H.R. 483. A bill to amend title IV of the Higher Education 
     Act of 1965 to prohibitthe provision of funds under such 
     title to institutions of higher education that violate the 
     immigration laws, and for otherpurposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO (for himself andMs. Slaughter):
       H.R. 484. A bill to amend the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 
     1995 and theForeign Agents Registration Act of 1938 to 
     restrict the lobbying activities of former political 
     appointees, and for otherpurposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mrs. BEATTY (for herself, Ms. MaxineWaters of 
             California, Mr. Conyers, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, 
             and Mr. Ellison):
       H.R. 485. A bill to amend the Federal Reserve Act to 
     require Federal Reserve banks to interview at least one 
     individualreflective of gender diversity and one individual 
     reflective of racial or ethnic diversity when appointing 
     Federal Reserve bankpresidents, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. BIGGS (forhimself, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Gosar, 
             Mr. Cramer, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Barletta, 
             Mr.McKinley, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Palmer, Mr. Carter of 
             Georgia, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mr.Grothman, 
             Mr. Brat, and Mr. Franks of Arizona):
       H.R. 486. A bill to require theSecretary of Homeland 
     Security to detain any alien who is unlawfully present in the 
     United States and is arrested for certaincriminal offenses; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BURGESS (for himself and Mr.Amash):
       H.R. 487. A bill to prohibit the Central Intelligence 
     Agency from using an unmannedaerial vehicle to carry out a 
     weapons strike or other deliberately lethal action and to 
     transfer the authority to conduct suchstrikes or lethal 
     action to the Department of

[[Page H470]]

     Defense; to the Committee on Intelligence (Permanent Select), 
     and inaddition to the Committee on Armed Services, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case forconsideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr.CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Amodei, Ms. 
             Bordallo, Ms. Brownley of California, Mrs. Bustos, 
             Mrs.Comstock, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Courtney, Mr. Cummings, Ms.DelBene, 
             Mr. Doggett, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Engel, Mr. Farenthold, 
             Mr. Foster, Ms. Gabbard,Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Heck, Mr. 
             Himes, Mr. Hurd, Mr. Sensenbrenner, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
             Katko,Mr. Keating, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Lance, Mr. 
             Langevin, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Lipinski, Mr.LoBiondo, 
             Mr. Loebsack, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New 
             Mexico, Mr. Lynch, Mr. McGovern, Mr.McKinley, Mr. 
             McNerney, Ms. Norton, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. 
             Quigley, Mrs.Radewagen, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. Rush, Mr. 
             Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Soto, Ms.Speier, Mr. 
             Thompson of California, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Tipton, Mr. Turner, Mr.Walz, Mr. Young of Iowa, 
             Mr. Marshall, Mr. Knight, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, and 
             Mr. Russell):
       H.R. 488. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow a credit against income taxfor amounts paid by a 
     spouse of a member of the Armed Forces for a new State 
     license or certification required by reason of apermanent 
     change in the duty station of such member to another State; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. DelBENE (for herself, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Lewis of 
             Georgia, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Judy Chu ofCalifornia, Mr. 
             Ellison, Mr. Carson of Indiana, and Ms. Matsui):
       H.R. 489. Abill to prohibit the collection of information 
     and the establishment or utilization of a registry for the 
     purposes ofclassifying or surveilling certain United States 
     persons and other individuals on the basis of religious 
     affiliation, and forother purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa (for himself and Mr.Franks of 
             Arizona):
       H.R. 490. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     prohibitabortion in cases where a fetal heartbeat is 
     detectable; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr.CAPUANO:
       H.R. 491. A bill to provide for the repayment of amounts 
     borrowed by Fannie Mae andFreddie Mac from the Treasury of 
     the United States, together with interest, over a 30-year 
     period, and for other purposes; tothe Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. CAPUANO:
       H.R. 492. Abill to ensure that any authority of the Mutual 
     Mortgage Insurance Fund to borrow amounts from the Treasury 
     is used only to paymortgage insurance claims; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. CAPUANO (for himself,Mr. Lynch, and Mr. 
             Ellison):
       H.R. 493. A bill to amend the Dodd-Frank Wall StreetReform 
     and Consumer Protection Act to require certain systemically 
     important entities to account for the financial benefit 
     theyreceive as a result of the expectations on the part of 
     shareholders, creditors, and counterparties of such entities 
     that theGovernment will shield them from losses in the event 
     of failure, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. CARTER of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Allen, Mr. 
             Bishop of Georgia, Mr.Collins of Georgia, Mr. 
             Ferguson, Mr. Graves of Georgia, Mr. Jody B. Hice of 
             Georgia, Mr. Johnsonof Georgia, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, 
             Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr. 
             David Scott ofGeorgia, and Mr. Woodall):
       H.R. 494. A bill to expand the boundary of Fort 
     FredericaNational Monument in the State of Georgia, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CARTER of Texas:
       H.R. 495. A bill to amend the William Wilberforce 
     TraffickingVictims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 to 
     provide for the expedited removal of unaccompanied alien 
     children who are notvictims of a severe form of trafficking 
     in persons and who do not have a fear of returning to their 
     country of nationality orlast habitual residence, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committee on ForeignAffairs, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fallwithin the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. COFFMAN (for himself, Mr.Gutierrez, Mr. Curbelo 
             of Florida, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Denham, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, and Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California):
       H.R. 496. A bill to provide provisionalprotected presence 
     to qualified individuals who came to the United States as 
     children; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. COOK (for himself and Mr. Aguilar):
       H.R. 497. A billto direct the Secretary of the Interior to 
     convey certain public lands in San Bernardino County, 
     California, to the SanBernardino Valley Water Conservation 
     District, and to accept in return certain exchanged non-
     public lands, and for otherpurposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CRAMER (for himself and Mr.Welch):
       H.R. 498. A bill to authorize the exportation of consumer 
     communication devices toCuba and the provision of 
     telecommunications services to Cuba, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, andin addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     forconsideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr.DeSANTIS:
       H.R. 499. A bill to require members of Congress and 
     congressional staff toabide by the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act with respect to health insurance 
     coverage, and for other purposes; tothe Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committees on House Administration, Ways and Means, andEnergy 
     and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of suchprovisions 
     as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DesJARLAIS (forhimself, Mrs. Black, Mrs. 
             Blackburn, Mr. Brat, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Cooper, Mr. 
             Duncan ofTennessee, Mr. Fleischmann, Mr. King of 
             Iowa, Mr. Kustoff of Tennessee, Mr. Massie, Mr. Roe 
             ofTennessee, Mr. Rohrabacher, Mr. Stivers, and Mrs. 
             Brooks of Indiana):
       H.R. 500.A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to exclude from gross income any discharge of indebtedness 
     income on educationloans of deceased or disabled veterans; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. DINGELL (forherself and Mr. Walberg):
       H.R. 501. A bill to require increased reporting regarding 
     certainsurgeries scheduled at medical facilities of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee onVeterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself and Mr. Meehan):
       H.R. 502. A bill to permanently reauthorize the Land and 
     Water Conservation Fund; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. LABRADOR:
       H.R. 503. A bill to amend title 28, United StatesCode, to 
     provide for an additional judge for the district of Idaho, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. LANCE:
       H.R. 504. A bill to amend title 36, United StatesCode, to 
     require that the POW/MIA flag be displayed on all days that 
     the flag of the United States is displayed on certainFederal 
     property; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. McSALLY (for herself, Mr.Gosar, Mr. Hensarling, 
             Mr. Hurd, Mr. Katko, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Franks 
             of Arizona, Mr.Farenthold, Ms. Sinema, Mrs. Comstock, 
             Mr. Russell, Mr. Donovan, Mr. McCaul, Mr.Biggs, and 
             Mr. Rogers of Alabama):
       H.R. 505. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Actof 2002 
     to strengthen accountability for deployment of border 
     security technology at the Department of Homeland Security, 
     andfor other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. THOMAS J. ROONEY of Florida(for himself and Mr. 
             Deutch):
       H.R. 506. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, 
     toprovide an additional tool to prevent certain frauds 
     against veterans, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     theJudiciary.
           By Mr. ROSS:
       H.R. 507. A bill to require zero-basedbudgeting for 
     departments and agencies of the Government; to the Committee 
     on the Budget.
           By Ms.ROYBAL-ALLARD (for herself, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Lynch, 
             Ms.Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Kaptur, 
             Mr. Clay, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. Bishop ofGeorgia, 
             Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Clyburn, Mr. 
             Thompson of Mississippi, Ms. Michelle LujanGrisham of 
             New Mexico, Ms. Bass, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Cardenas, Ms. 
             Hanabusa, Mr. Aguilar,Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Pocan, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. Moulton, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Vela, Mr. Veasey, 
             Ms.Matsui, Ms. Tsongas, Ms. Speier, Ms. DeLauro, Ms. 
             Shea-Porter, Mr. Espaillat, Mr.Welch, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Keating, Ms. DelBene, Ms. 
             Kelly ofIllinois, Mr. Takano, Mr. Delaney, Ms. Moore, 
             Mr. Meeks, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Norton, Mr.Scott of 
             Virginia, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Foster, Mr. Soto, Mr. 
             Jeffries, Mr. Evans, Mr. TedLieu of California, Mr. 
             Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Hastings, Mrs. Radewagen, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Mr.Gallego, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Conyers, 
             Mr. Vargas, Ms. Meng, Ms. Brownley of California, 
             Mr.DeFazio, Mr. Capuano, Ms. Esty, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Tonko, Mr.Connolly, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Sarbanes, Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California, Mr. Peters, Ms.Slaughter, Mr. Garamendi, 
             Mr. Larsen of Washington, Mr. Sablan, Mr. Cummings,

[[Page H471]]

             Mr.Heck, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Suozzi, Ms. Plaskett, Ms. 
             Clarke of New York, Mrs. Beatty, Mr.Grijalva, Ms. 
             Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Eddie 
             Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr.Sherman, Mr. Kennedy, 
             Mr. McGovern, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Gutierrez, 
             Mr.O'Halleran, Mr. O'Rourke, Ms. Titus, Mr. Gonzalez 
             of Texas, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Lewis ofGeorgia, Mrs. 
             Lowey, Mr. Rush, Mr. Blumenauer, Mrs. Torres, Mr. 
             Sean Patrick Maloney of New York,Ms. Castor of 
             Florida, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Nadler, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms.McCollum, Mr. David 
             Scott of Georgia, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Ms. JudyChu of California, 
             Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Correa, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Al 
             Green of Texas, Mr.Perlmutter, Mr. DeSaulnier, and 
             Mr. Cartwright):
       H.R. 508. A bill to expandMedicare coverage to include 
     eyeglasses, hearing aids, and dental care; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, and in additionto the Committee on 
     Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration ofsuch provisions 
     as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr.SENSENBRENNER:
       H.R. 509. A bill to abolish the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, 
     Firearms, andExplosives, transfer its functions relating to 
     the Federal firearms, explosives, and arson laws, violent 
     crime, and domesticterrorism to the Federal Bureau of 
     Investigation, and transfer its functions relating to the 
     Federal alcohol and tobaccosmuggling laws to the Drug 
     Enforcement Administration, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER (for himself, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mr. Rodney Davis ofIllinois, Mr. Kind, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Cohen, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. 
             Ratcliffe, Ms. Speier, Mr.Pearce, and Mr. 
             DeSaulnier):
       H.R. 510. A bill to establish a system for integration 
     ofRapid DNA instruments for use by law enforcement to reduce 
     violent crime and reduce the current DNA analysis backlog; to 
     theCommittee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. WELCH (for himself and Mrs. Brooks of Indiana):
       H.R. 511. A bill to provide for consideration of the 
     extension under the Energy Policy andConservation Act of 
     nonapplication of No-Load Mode energy efficiency standards to 
     certain security or life safety alarms orsurveillance 
     systems, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr.YOHO (for himself, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, 
             Ms. Sinema, Mr. Delaney, Mr. Babin, Mr.Bishop of 
             Michigan, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Costa, Mr. Davidson, 
             Mr. DesJarlais, Mrs. Dingell,Mr. Flores, Mr. Franks 
             of Arizona, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Gosar, Mr. 
             Harris, Mr.Hill, Mr. Jones, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. 
             King of Iowa, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Roskam, Mr.Mast, 
             Mr. Young of Iowa, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Rogers of Kentucky, 
             Ms. McSally, Mr. Buchanan, Mr.Crowley, Mr. Cardenas, 
             Mr. Bacon, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Kinzinger, Mr. 
             Courtney, Mrs.Bustos, Mr. Emmer, Mr. Reed, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Himes, Mr. Rutherford, Mrs. Black,Mr. 
             Bishop of Utah, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Sam Johnson of Texas, Ms.Frankel of 
             Florida, Mr. Rogers of Alabama, Mr. Wittman, Mr. 
             Farenthold, Mr. Rice of SouthCarolina, Mr. Sablan, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mrs. Beatty, 
             Mr. Allen, Mr.Grothman, Mr. Cole, Mr. Tipton, Mr. 
             Bera, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Lowenthal, Mrs. Radewagen,Mr. 
             Conyers, Ms. Lee, Ms. Kaptur, Mrs. Hartzler, Mr. 
             Gallego, Mr. Francis Rooney of Florida,Mr. 
             Bridenstine, Mr. Barletta, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Rush, Mr. 
             Byrne, Mr. Barr, Mr.Ratcliffe, Mr. Rouzer, Mr. Poe of 
             Texas, Mr. Mitchell, Mr. Marshall, Mrs. Brooks of 
             Indiana,Mrs. Love, Mr. Marino, Mr. Massie, Mr. 
             Meehan, Mr. Messer, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Rokita, Mr.Thomas 
             J. Rooney of Florida, Mr. Royce of California, Mr. 
             Thompson of California, Mr. Weber of Texas,Mr. Wilson 
             of South Carolina, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Bergman, Mr. 
             Brat, Mr. Crist, Mr. Faso, Mr.Curbelo of Florida, Ms. 
             Gabbard, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Perry, Mr. Cook, Mrs. Wagner, 
             Mr.Bucshon, Mr. Olson, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. 
             Mooney of West Virginia, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr.Peters, 
             Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. 
             Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Smith ofMissouri, Mr. 
             Cramer, Mr. Donovan, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Soto, Mr. 
             Dunn, Mr. Graves ofLouisiana, Mr. Lewis of Minnesota, 
             Mr. Collins of Georgia, Mr. Griffith, Mr. Hurd, Mr. 
             Lance, Mr.LaMalfa, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mr. 
             Newhouse, Mr. Sires, Mr. Shimkus, Mr. LaHood, 
             Mr.Ferguson, Mr. Comer, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Gowdy, Mr. 
             Bost, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Duncan of SouthCarolina, Mr. 
             Kelly of Mississippi, Mr. Valadao, Mrs. McMorris 
             Rodgers, Mr. Cicilline, Mr.Schneider, Mr. Walberg, 
             Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Sean 
             Patrick Maloney of NewYork, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Issa, 
             Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Biggs, Mr. DeSantis, 
             and Mr.Engel):
       H.R. 512. A bill to title 38, United States Code, to permit 
     veterans to grant accessto their records in the databases of 
     the Veterans Benefits Administration to certain designated 
     congressional employees, and forother purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 513. A bill to provide for the exchange of certain 
     National Forest System land and non-Federal land in theState 
     of Alaska, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. WENSTRUP(for himself, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. 
             Rothfus, and Mrs. Wagner):
       H.J. Res. 27.A joint resolution disapproving the action of 
     the District of Columbia Council in approving the Death with 
     Dignity Act of 2016;to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. GRAVES of Missouri (for himself andMr. Walz):
       H. Res. 46. A resolution recognizing the increased risk of 
     sleep apnea amongsoldiers returning from active duty and the 
     benefits of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) 
     therapy on treatingobstructive sleep apnea (OSA) in soldiers 
     suffering from Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD); to the 
     Committee on ArmedServices, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Veterans' Affairs, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, ineach case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. RENACCI (for himself, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Amodei, 
             and Mr. Westerman):
       H. Res. 47. A resolution amending the Rules of the House of 
     Representatives respecting budget-related points oforder; to 
     the Committee on Rules.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
             Ms.Maxine Waters of California, Mr. Hastings, Mr. 
             Conyers, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Wilson of Florida, 
             Mr.Rush, Mr. Engel, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Norton, Mrs. 
             Lowey, and Ms. Tsongas):
       H. Res. 49. A resolution recognizing the anniversary of the 
     tragic earthquake in Haiti on January 12, 2010,honoring those 
     who lost their lives in the earthquake and in Hurricane 
     Matthew in October 2016, and expressing continuedsolidarity 
     with the Haitian people; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. SESSIONS (forhimself and Mr. Carter of Georgia):
       H. Res. 50. A resolution recognizing the 
     historicalimportance of Associate Justice Clarence Thomas; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the 
     Committee on HouseAdministration, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions asfall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.

                          ____________________



