

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 34 (Monday, February 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 34 (Monday, February 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S1445]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

                 TRIBUTE TO MAJOR GENERAL FRANK VAVALA

 Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, it is with great pleasure that I 
rise today on behalf of Delaware's congressional delegation--Senator 
Chris Coons, Congresswoman Lisa Blunt Rochester and myself--to honor 
the exemplary service of MG Frank Vavala, the adjutant general for 
Delaware for the past 18 years. As Governor of Delaware, I had the 
distinct pleasure of nominating him to serve as Adjutant General in 
February 1999, and I believe to this day it is one of the best 
appointments I have ever made. Over the past 17 years, General Vavala 
has been responsible for the mission readiness of all Delaware National 
Guard units for both Federal and State missions. He served as a cabinet 
member and trusted military adviser to me when I was Governor, as well 
as to the three Governors who succeeded me: Governor Ruth Ann Minner, 
Governor Jack Markell, and Governor John Carney. In January 2017, he 
was promoted to the rank of lieutenant general Delaware, becoming the 
first three-star general to lead the Delaware National Guard.
  During General Vavala's tenure, the Delaware National Guard has 
deployed close to 11,000 soldiers and airmen to support our State and 
country. Nearly half of them were deployed abroad to Bosnia, South 
America, Africa, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iraq, and Afghanistan, among 
other countries. Once in theater, these men and women accomplished 
almost every mission imaginable. They ran entry control points, 
provided security, established and maintained communications and 
conducted medical evacuation from the battlefield. They also 
transported supplies, patients, personnel, and dignitaries in both UH-
60 Blackhawk helicopters and C-130 aircraft. Back at home, the Delaware 
Guard activated nearly 5,000 soldiers and airmen to provide support 
during 11 snowstorms, 8 hurricanes--including Hurricane Katrina, where 
hundreds of Delawareans went to help in Mississippi and Louisiana just 
24 hours after the devastating storm made landfall, 1 tornado, dozens 
of floods, Noreasters, and three Presidential inaugurations. General 
Vavala oversaw all operations as soldiers and airmen helped transport 
emergency workers and patients, evacuate flooded areas, get residents 
to shelter, safety, and medical assistance, and even set up emergency 
communications around the state.
  Like many successful leaders, General Vavala did not keep regular 
office hours. He routinely came to work early, stayed late, and worked 
on weekends. He was known for taking the time to recognize, thank, 
console, and care for everyone under his command from the newest 
private to the most senior officer. He valued every person who wore the 
uniform equally. I have met Guard men and women for years who say that 
when they were in a time of need, General Vavala was there for them, 
even if it was just taking time to drop them an email or note. 
Sometimes they wondered how he found out about what was going on in 
their lives, but however he did it, he found out. He prioritized his 
soldiers and airmen over his own career. Instead of focusing the 
spotlight on his individual accomplishments, General Vavala put the 
focus on his soldiers and airmen, and it made his career a success by 
default.
  In addition to holding dozens of leadership positions in the Delaware 
Guard, General Vavala held prominent national positions as president of 
the Adjutants General Association of the United States and chairman of 
the board of the National Guard Association of the United States, 
NGAUS. During his tenure as chairman of the board, NGAUS was the main 
driver responsible for passing one of the most significant pieces of 
military legislation in a generation--the National Guard Empowerment 
Act. General Vavala provided key testimony before the House Armed 
Services Committee and was instrumental in advocating for the passage 
of this important legislation. In January 2012, Delaware's 146th 
General Assembly passed H.J. Res. 10, recognizing General Vavala for 
his leading role in helping to reshape the U.S. military.
  General Vavala is from a proud military family, having served with 
both his father, COL Frank P. Vavala, and brother MSG Gerard P. Vavala. 
Before serving as Adjutant General, he worked full time for the DuPont 
Company, where he was employed as marketing services supervisor for 31 
years. He has been honored with the Anthony of Padua Founders' Award 
and the Italian-American Man of the Year Award. He also cares about his 
community, organizing food drives for the Food Bank of Delaware, and he 
is a person of deep faith who takes seriously what the Bible tells us 
about caring for others and focused that into his career as Adjutant 
General.
  I believe General Vavala has been successful in no small part because 
he possesses some of the finest leadership qualities that I have ever 
observed in a military leader. Frank Vavala understands that leaders 
are humble, not haughty. They have the heart of a servant. They 
understand that their role is to serve, not be served. General Vavala 
leads by example. It is not do as I say, but do as I do. He knows that 
the best leaders aren't afraid to keep out of step when everyone else 
is marching to the wrong tune. Leaders unite, not divide. They build 
bridges not walls. They are aspirational--purveyors of hope, if you 
will--and they appeal to our better angels. Like the very best leaders, 
Frank has always sought to do what is right, not what is easy or 
expedient. He embraces the Golden Rule and treats other people the way 
he would want to be treated. General Vavala surrounds himself with the 
best people he can find. When his team does well, he gives the credit 
to them. And when the team falls short of the mark, this leader takes 
the blame. Finally, when General Frank Vavala knows he is right, he 
never gives up. As a leader, General Frank Vavala is in a class of his 
own, and he is one whom other leaders, both civilian and military would 
do well to emulate.
  On behalf of Senator Coons and Congresswoman Blunt Rochester, let me 
wholeheartedly thank General Vavala for his service to our country and 
our State. The leadership and commitment he modeled helped keep 
Delaware and our Nation more safe and secure. Today, we are honored to 
be able to offer General Vavala our sincere congratulations on a job 
well done. From our hearts, we wish him and his wife Jane, who he has 
been married to for 50 years--along with their children Anne, Jane, and 
Nick and their three granddaughters--many happy, healthy, and 
successful years to come. Bravo Zulu.

                          ____________________



