

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S297-S298]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       NOMINATION OF REXTILLERSON

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I came to the floor yesterday to voice my 
serious concernswith some of the remarks made by the Secretary of State 
nominee, Rex Tillerson, in his hearing.
  I was worried that hismilquetoast posture toward Russia, especially 
his failure to support strong U.S. sanctions--existing or proposed--
bespoke afundamental misreading of the geopolitical climate and the 
true nature of our international security challenges.
  I wasworried that, as Secretary of State, he only promised to recuse 
himself from matters involving Exxon for a

[[Page S298]]

period of 12months. Exxon's interests overseas aren't going away after 
1 year. That is not good enough to resolve what is, potentially, 
amassive conflict of interest.
  I am worried that Mr. Tillerson, as CEO and chairman of ExxonMobil, 
conducted business withall three foreign state sponsors of terrorism 
through a foreign subsidiary in a way that allowed Exxon to evade U.S. 
sanctions.As the head of Exxon, Mr. Tillerson did business with the 
terrorism trifecta: Iran, Syria, and Sudan. This raises 
seriousquestions that the man who is nominated to be the face of the 
United States to the world has so much experience doing businesswith 
our most prominent and concerning adversaries.
  At the hearing, under questions from the senior Senator from New 
Jerseyand the Senator from Oregon, Mr. Tillerson denied having 
knowledge of these dealings and directed the Senators to seek 
moreinformation from ExxonMobil itself. Three times he told the 
committee that he ``did not recall'' any of the details. Throughoutthe 
afternoon, it sounded like he was following the dodgeball rules for 
confirmation hearings: Dodge, dip, duck, dive, anddodge. In fact, he 
basically admitted it to the junior Senator from Virginia.
  I just read in the Washington Post that, onthree separate occasions, 
the SEC, or the Securities and Exchange Commission, wrote letters 
directed to Mr. Tillerson himselfseeking more information on these 
undisclosed dealings during his tenure as CEO and chairman--once on 
January 6, 2006, once onMay 4, 2006, and again on December 1, 2010.
  In general, I like to give people the benefit of the doubt. But it 
gives megreat concern that Mr. Tillerson says he has zero recollection 
of an SEC inquiry into his company's business dealings withforeign 
state sponsors of terrorism--real concern. He got three letters from 
the SEC on a matter of major, major importance thatwould concern the 
whole corporation--the giant ExxonMobil--and he says he doesn't recall. 
This is the kind of matter that shouldbe handled and approved by an 
organization's most senior leader.
  Mr. Tillerson presents himself as a hands-on manager. Itdefies 
credibility to believe he doesn't recall. This is extraordinarily 
troubling because either one of two things is true.Either Mr. Tillerson 
was aware of these SEC letters and was familiar with these dealings but 
didn't want to answer the questionshonestly, or, indeed, he had no 
knowledge of consequential financial disclosures made by his own 
company. If we consider that,in concert with all the other things he 
claimed to have ``no knowledge of''--including the widely reported 
extrajudicial killingsin the Philippines, whether or not Saudi Arabia 
was a human rights violator--imagine, he had no knowledge of whether 
Saudi Arabiawas a human rights violator; people in a fifth grade world 
history class would know that--whether or not his company was engagedin 
lobbying against, or perhaps for, energy sanctions--then maybe Mr. 
Tillerson does not have the necessary management skills orknowledge 
base to be the chief diplomat of the United States of America, running 
a Department that is obviously worldwide,farflung, and with thousands 
and thousands and thousands of employees.
  Simply put,we need answers. What did Mr. Tillerson know and when did 
he know it? The American people expect their Secretary of State to 
bestraightforward and honest with them--not coy, not dissembling. Most 
importantly, they expect him or her to have the interests ofthe 
American people and our friends and allies around the world at the 
forefront of their mind.
  Unfortunately for Mr.Tillerson, and for this country, yesterday's 
hearings and today's reports raise more questions than answers. The 
American peopledeserve answers.
  I yield the floor.

                          ____________________



