

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 39 (Tuesday, March 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 39 (Tuesday, March 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H1592-H1594]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Conyers, 
             Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Ms. DeGette, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Delaney, Mr. Richmond, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Evans, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of 
             Texas, Ms. Maxine Waters of California, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Ellison, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Jayapal, 
             Mr. Cohen, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Payne, Mr. 
             Soto, Mr. Higgins of New York, Mr. Kildee, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, 
             Ms. Frankel of Florida, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Raskin, Ms. 
             Speier, Mr. Courtney, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Shea-Porter, 
             Mr. McEachin, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Grijalva, 
             Mr. Tonko, and Mr. Sherman):
       H.R. 1374. A bill to amend title 9 of the United States 
     Code with respect to arbitration; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts (for herself and Mr. 
             Jenkins of West Virginia):
       H.R. 1375. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     authorize the Secretary of Health of Human Services to award 
     grants to States (or collaborations of States) to establish, 
     expand, or maintain a comprehensive regional, State, or 
     municipal system to provide training, education, 
     consultation, and other resources to prescribers relating to 
     patient pain, substance misuse, and substance abuse 
     disorders, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. CUMMINGS:
       H.R. 1376. A bill to amend title 44, United States Code, to 
     require preservation of certain electronic records by Federal 
     agencies, to require a certification and reports relating to 
     Presidential records, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. HARPER:
       H.R. 1377. A bill to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
     1938 to better align certain provisions of such Act with 
     Federal disability laws and policies intended to remove 
     societal and institutional barriers to employment 
     opportunities for people with disabilities; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. HARPER:
       H.R. 1378. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     provide for the participation of doctors of chiropractic in 
     the National Health Service Corps scholarship and loan 
     repayment programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr. Walz, Mr. Mast, and Mr. 
             Bergman):
       H.R. 1379. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for the entitlement to educational assistance under 
     the Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Program of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs for members of the Armed 
     Forces awarded the Purple Heart; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. DelBENE (for herself, Mrs. McMorris Rodgers, Mr. 
             Kilmer, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, Ms. Kuster of 
             New Hampshire, Mr. Westerman, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. 
             Abraham, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Schrader, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. 
             Welch, Mr. Larsen of Washington, and Mr. Harper):
       H.R. 1380. A bill to clarify research and development for 
     wood products, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, and in addition to the Committee on Science, 
     Space, and Technology, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH:
       H.R. 1381. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to permit States to impose an individual responsibility 
     requirement for nondisabled, nonelderly, nonpregnant 
     individuals made eligible for medical assistance; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. WEBER of Texas (for himself, Mr. Austin Scott of 
             Georgia, and Mr. Byrne):
       H.R. 1382. A bill to establish requirements and 
     restrictions for the commercial, charter, and recreational 
     red snapper fishing seasons in the Gulf of Mexico for the 
     2017 and 2018 fishing seasons, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BACON (for himself, Mr. Dunn, Mr. Marshall, and 
             Mr. Taylor):
       H.R. 1383. A bill to direct certain actions of the United 
     States Government with respect to recognizing the service and 
     sacrifice of veterans of the Korean Constabulary, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs, and Armed 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. PALAZZO (for himself, Mr. Walz, Ms. Shea-Porter, 
             and Mr. Franks of Arizona):
       H.R. 1384. A bill to amend titles 5, 10, 37, and 38 of the 
     United States Code to ensure that an order to serve on active 
     duty under section 12304a and 12304b of title 10, United 
     States Code, is treated the same as other orders to serve on 
     active duty for determining the eligibility of members of the 
     uniformed services and veterans for certain benefits and for 
     calculating the deadlines for certain benefits; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Veterans' Affairs, and Oversight and Government 
     Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. FOXX:
       H.R. 1385. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     limit recruitment and retention bonuses for employees who 
     spend certain durations of time on official time, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. KATKO (for himself, Mr. Lipinski, and Mrs. 
             Comstock):
       H.R. 1386. A bill to direct the Secretary of Transportation 
     to establish a pilot program to assess the operational 
     benefits of remote air traffic control towers, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. CHAFFETZ (for himself, Mr. Meadows, Ms. Foxx, 
             Mr. Messer, Mr. Frelinghuysen, Mr. Walberg, Mr. 
             Rokita, Mr. Harris, and Mr. DeSantis):
       H.R. 1387. A bill to reauthorize the Scholarships for 
     Opportunity and Results Act, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. O'HALLERAN:
       H.R. 1388. A bill to enact House Resolution 895, One 
     Hundred Tenth Congress, (establishing the Office of 
     Congressional Ethics) into permanent law; to the Committee on 
     House Administration, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Rules, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS:
       H.R. 1389. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide States with

[[Page H1593]]

     flexibility to provide care coordination under Medicaid for 
     the most vulnerable through managed care; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. BANKS of Indiana (for himself, Mr. Messer, Mr. 
             Budd, and Mrs. Radewagen):
       H.R. 1390. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to pay costs 
     relating to the transportation of certain deceased veterans 
     to veterans' cemeteries owned by a State or tribal 
     organization; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BANKS of Indiana:
       H.R. 1391. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide 
     educational and vocational counseling for veterans on 
     campuses of institutions of higher learning, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BERA (for himself, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Soto, Mr. 
             Perlmutter, Mr. McNerney, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Mr. 
             Himes, and Ms. Sinema):
       H.R. 1392. A bill to establish a National TechCorps 
     program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Oversight and Government Reform, and Ways and 
     Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BISHOP of Michigan (for himself, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Mr. Smith of Missouri, Mr. Walker, Mr. 
             Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Messer, Mr. Hurd, Mr. 
             Rice of South Carolina, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Bucshon, 
             Mr. Culberson, Mr. McCaul, Mrs. Comstock, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Mr. Cooper, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida, Mr. Marino, Mrs. Walorski, and Mr. Crist):
       H.R. 1393. A bill to limit the authority of States to tax 
     certain income of employees for employment duties performed 
     in other States; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana (for herself, Mr. Collins of 
             New York, and Mr. Guthrie):
       H.R. 1394. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide States with flexibility with respect to 
     providing coverage for nonemergency transportation under 
     Medicaid; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. BURGESS (for himself, Mr. Collins of New York, 
             Mrs. Blackburn, and Mr. Mullin):
       H.R. 1395. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to improve the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access 
     Commission (MACPAC); to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr. Conyers, Ms. Maxine 
             Waters of California, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Jayapal, 
             Mr. Raskin, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Ms. Hanabusa, 
             Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, 
             and Mr. Grijalva):
       H.R. 1396. A bill to restore statutory rights to the people 
     of the United States from forced arbitration; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. COMSTOCK:
       H.R. 1397. A bill to authorize, direct, facilitate, and 
     expedite the transfer of administrative jurisdiction of 
     certain Federal land, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself and Mr. Langevin):
       H.R. 1398. A bill to provide funds to give States 
     incentives to invest in practices and technology designed to 
     expedite voting at the polls and simplify voter registration, 
     improve voting system security, and promote automatic voter 
     registration, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     House Administration.
           By Mr. COOK (for himself, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Schrader, 
             Mr. Knight, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Tipton, Mr. Himes, Mr. 
             Valadao, Ms. Cheney, Mr. Yoder, Mr. Ruppersberger, 
             Mr. Culberson, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. McKinley, Mr. 
             Costa, Mrs. Mimi Walters of California, Mr. LaMalfa, 
             Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, and Mr. Kelly of 
             Mississippi):
       H.R. 1399. A bill to reduce temporarily the royalty 
     required to be paid for sodium produced on Federal lands, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CRAWFORD (for himself, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Palazzo, 
             Mr. Westerman, and Mr. Hill):
       H.R. 1400. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to authorize agricultural producers to establish and 
     contribute to tax-exempt farm risk management accounts; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CURBELO of Florida (for himself and Mr. Crist):
       H.R. 1401. A bill to ensure fairness in premium rates for 
     coverage under the National Flood Insurance Program for 
     residences and business properties, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. GABBARD (for herself and Ms. Hanabusa):
       H.R. 1402. A bill to amend the Food, Agriculture, 
     Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 to provide for a 
     macadamia tree health initiative, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Miss GONZALEZ-COLON of Puerto Rico (for herself, Mr. 
             Curbelo of Florida, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, and Mr. 
             Serrano):
       H.R. 1403. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to make permanent the deduction for income attributable 
     to domestic production activities in Puerto Rico; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. GRIJALVA:
       H.R. 1404. A bill to provide for the conveyance of certain 
     land inholdings owned by the United States to the Tucson 
     Unified School District and to the Pascua Yaqui Tribe of 
     Arizona; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. 
             Vargas, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Cardenas, Ms. Norton, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Gene 
             Green of Texas, Mr. Vela, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Cicilline, 
             Ms. Jayapal, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Aguilar, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Mr. Takano, Mr. Gallego, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 1405. A bill to require the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to establish a veterans visa program to permit 
     veterans who have been removed from the United States to 
     return as immigrants, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees 
     on Armed Services, and Veterans' Affairs, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HASTINGS (for himself, Mr. Buchanan, Mr. Trott, 
             and Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 1406. A bill to amend the Animal Welfare Act to 
     prohibit the slaughter of dogs and cats for human 
     consumption; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. HUNTER:
       H.R. 1407. A bill to establish a strategic materials 
     investment fund, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Financial Services, Foreign Affairs, and Energy and Commerce, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ISSA:
       H.R. 1408. A bill to repeal the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act and the health care-related provisions in 
     the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 and 
     to amend title 5, United States Code, to offer Federal 
     employee health benefits plans to individuals who are not 
     Federal employees, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Ways and Means, Oversight and Government Reform, Education 
     and the Workforce, Natural Resources, the Judiciary, 
     Appropriations, House Administration, and Rules, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LANCE (for himself, Mr. Higgins of New York, Mr. 
             Harper, Mr. Foster, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. 
             Cummings, Mr. Wittman, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Poe of 
             Texas, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Pingree, Mrs. 
             Blackburn, Mr. King of New York, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. 
             Kildee, Mr. Donovan, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. 
             DeFazio, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Long, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Mr. Flores, Mr. Sean Patrick 
             Maloney of New York, Mr. Murphy of Pennsylvania, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Latta, Mr. MacArthur, and Mr. 
             Kilmer):
       H.R. 1409. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     require group and individual health insurance coverage and 
     group health plans to provide for cost sharing for oral 
     anticancer drugs on terms no less favorable than the cost 
     sharing provided for anticancer medications administered by a 
     health care provider; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Ms. McSALLY (for herself and Mr. Grijalva):
       H.R. 1410. A bill to establish responsibility for the 
     International Outfall Interceptor; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. PALLONE (for himself and Mr. LoBiondo):
       H.R. 1411. A bill to continue in effect for the 2017 and 
     2018 fishing seasons certain fishing specifications for the 
     summer flounder fishery, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD:
       H.R. 1412. A bill to establish a commission to study the 
     removal of Mexican-Americans to Mexico during 1929-1941, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. RYAN of Ohio (for himself, Mr. Tiberi, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. Blumenauer, and Ms. Pingree):

[[Page H1594]]

  

       H.R. 1413. A bill to provide for a grants program to 
     develop and enhance integrated nutrition and physical 
     activity curricula in medical schools; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SHERMAN (for himself, Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Grijalva, 
             Ms. Hanabusa, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Ted 
             Lieu of California, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Sean 
             Patrick Maloney of New York, Ms. Norton, Mr. Payne, 
             Mr. Raskin, and Ms. Schakowsky):
       H.R. 1414. A bill to amend the Truth in Lending Act and the 
     Electronic Fund Transfer Act to provide justice to victims of 
     fraud; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself and Mr. Meeks):
       H.R. 1415. A bill to facilitate effective research on and 
     treatment of neglected tropical diseases, including Ebola, 
     through coordinated domestic and international efforts; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Foreign Affairs, and Financial Services, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. TIBERI (for himself, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, and Mr. Smith of Missouri):
       H.R. 1416. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to exclude from gross income contributions to the 
     capital of a partnership, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska (for himself and Mr. 
             McClintock):
       H.R. 1417. A bill to amend the National Law Enforcement 
     Museum Act to allow the Museum to acquire, receive, possess, 
     collect, ship, transport, import, and display firearms, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 1418. A bill to amend the Alaska Native Claims 
     Settlement Act to provide that Alexander Creek, Alaska, is 
     and shall be recognized as an eligible Native village under 
     that Act, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Iowa (for himself, Ms. Pingree, Mr. 
             Jones, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Massie, Mr. Curbelo 
             of Florida, and Mr. Ryan of Ohio):
       H.R. 1419. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     provide for the award of a military service medal to members 
     of the Armed Forces who served honorably during the Cold War, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. HARPER:
       H. Res. 173. A resolution providing for the expenses of 
     certain committees of the House of Representatives in the One 
     Hundred Fifteenth Congress; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Mr. Price of North Carolina, 
             and Mr. Chabot):
       H. Res. 176. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of Multiple Sclerosis Awareness Week; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. RICHMOND:
       H. Res. 177. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of Clergy Spouse Appreciation Day; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.

                          ____________________



