

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 16 (Tuesday, January 31, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H794-H796]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           GAINS IN GLOBAL NUCLEAR DETECTION ARCHITECTURE ACT

  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 690) to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to enhance 
certain duties of the Domestic Nuclear Detection Office, and for other 
purposes.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                H.R. 690

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Gains in Global Nuclear 
     Detection Architecture Act''.

     SEC. 2. DUTIES OF THE DOMESTIC NUCLEAR DETECTION OFFICE.

       Section 1902 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
     592) is amended--
       (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
       (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
     subsection:
       ``(b) Implementation.--In carrying out paragraph (6) of 
     subsection (a), the Director of the Domestic Nuclear 
     Detection Office shall--
       ``(1) develop and maintain documentation, such as a 
     technology roadmap and strategy, that--
       ``(A) provides information on how the Office's research 
     investments address--
       ``(i) gaps in the enhanced global nuclear detection 
     architecture, as developed pursuant to paragraph (4) of such 
     subsection; and
       ``(ii) research challenges identified by the Director; and
       ``(B) defines in detail how the Office will address such 
     research challenges;

[[Page H795]]

       ``(2) document the rational for prioritizing and selecting 
     research topics; and
       ``(3) develop a systematic approach, which may include 
     annual metrics and periodic qualitative evaluations, for 
     evaluating how the outcomes of the Office's individual 
     research projects collectively contribute to addressing the 
     Office's research challenges.''.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. Donovan) and the gentleman from Louisiana (Mr. Richmond) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New York.


                             General Leave

  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks 
and include any extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from New York?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 690, the Gains in Global 
Nuclear Detection Architecture Act of 2016, sponsored by Representative 
Richmond. H.R. 690 directs the Department of Homeland Security's 
Domestic Nuclear Detection Office to develop and maintain documentation 
that provides information on how the office's research investments 
align with gaps in the Global Nuclear Detection Architecture and the 
research challenges identified by the Domestic Nuclear Detection 
Office.
  It further directs the Domestic Nuclear Detection Office to document 
the rationale for selecting research topics and to develop a systematic 
approach for evaluating how the outcomes of the office's individual 
research projects collectively contribute to addressing the research 
challenges.
  ISIS has declared its intention to develop weapons of mass 
destruction, which include nuclear devices, as well as radiological 
dispersal devices. The key to preventing this from happening is to make 
sure that nuclear material never falls into terrorist hands.
  According to data compiled by the International Atomic Energy Agency, 
there were nearly 1,150 incidents involving theft, criminal possession, 
or loss of radiological material reported between 1993 and 2014. The 
James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies in California 
identified 325 instances alone between 2013 and 2014 in 38 different 
countries where nuclear or radioactive material was stolen, lost, or 
outside of regulatory control.
  The amount of nuclear material in peaceful uses in the world has 
risen by 70 percent since 1999. It will continue to grow in the coming 
decades as global use of nuclear power increases.
  Just last summer, six men were convicted in Tbilisi, Georgia, for 
trying to sell uranium-238; and in January of 2016, three members of a 
criminal group were detained for trying to sell caesium-137, which 
could be used to make a dirty bomb.
  We must ensure that terrorists never get their hands on radioactive 
materials. This bill will enhance the Domestic Nuclear Detection 
Office's ability to provide radiation detection devices specifically 
aimed at preventing terrorists from being able to obtain enough 
radioactive material to construct a dirty bomb.
  This bill will ensure that the research topics it chooses to invest 
in to enhance our ability to detect smuggled nuclear materials are 
aligned with the gaps that have been identified in the Global Nuclear 
Detection Architecture, a multiagency framework for detecting, 
analyzing, and reporting on nuclear and other radioactive materials 
that are out of regulatory control.
  Requiring the Domestic Nuclear Detection Office to document their 
rationale for choosing research topics will ensure that the most 
important gaps in the Global Nuclear Detection Architecture are 
addressed.

                              {time}  1615

  I would like to thank Mr. Richmond for the work that he and his staff 
have done on this legislation. I believe this will better enable this 
country to detect smuggling of nuclear materials and prevent ISIS and 
other terrorists from carrying out a nuclear or radiological attack on 
American soil.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to join me in supporting this bill, 
and I reserve the balance of my time.

         House of Representatives, Committee on Science, Space and 
           Technology,
                                 Washington, DC, January 30, 2017.
     Hon. Michael McCaul,
     Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security, House of 
         Representatives, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: I am writing concerning H.R. 690, the 
     ``Gains in Global Nuclear Detection Architecture Act,'' which 
     was introduced on January 24, 2017.
       H.R. 690 contains provisions within the Committee on 
     Science, Space, and Technology's Rule X jurisdiction. In 
     order to expedite this bill for floor consideration, the 
     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology will forego 
     action on the bill. This is being done on the basis of our 
     mutual understanding that doing so will in no way diminish or 
     alter the jurisdiction of the Committee on Science, Space, 
     and Technology with respect to the appointment of conferees, 
     or to any future jurisdictional claim over the subject 
     matters contained in the bill or similar legislation.
       I would appreciate your response to this letter confirming 
     this understanding, and would request that you include a copy 
     of this letter and your response in the Congressional Record 
     during the floor consideration of this bill. Thank you in 
     advance for your cooperation.
           Sincerely,
                                                      Lamar Smith,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

                                         House of Representatives,


                               Committee on Homeland Security,

                                 Washington, DC, January 30, 2017.
     Hon. Lamar Smith,
     Chairman, Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, 
         Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Smith: Thank you for your letter regarding 
     H.R. 690, the ``Gains in Global Nuclear Detection 
     Architecture Act.'' I appreciate your support in bringing 
     this legislation before the House of Representatives, and 
     accordingly, understand that the Committee on Science, Space, 
     and Technology will not seek a sequential referral on this 
     legislation.
       The Committee on Homeland Security concurs with the mutual 
     understanding that by foregoing further action on this bill 
     at this time, the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology 
     does not waive any jurisdiction over the subject matter 
     contained in this bill or similar legislation in the future. 
     In addition, should a conference on this bill be necessary, I 
     would support your request to have the Committee on Science, 
     Space, and Technology represented on the conference 
     committee.
       I will insert copies of this exchange in the Congressional 
     Record during consideration of this bill on the House floor. 
     I thank you for your cooperation in this matter.
           Sincerely,
                                                Michael T. McCaul,
                         Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security.

  Mr. RICHMOND. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 690. I would like to thank the 
gentleman from New York, Congressman Donovan, for his help and support 
and his bipartisanship.
  Mr. Speaker, H.R. 690 is based on a bipartisan bill I introduced last 
year, H.R. 5391, which passed the House in September.
  For decades, security experts have warned of the danger that 
radioactive materials could be smuggled within and across our borders 
and used in an act of nuclear terrorism. The DHS Domestic Nuclear 
Detection Office, or DNDO, brings together expertise from across the 
Federal Government to detect and prevent the illicit transport, 
storage, and assembly of nuclear and radiological weapons. These 
interagency partners coordinate their efforts using a multilayered 
framework--the Global Nuclear Detection Architecture, or GNDA. GNDA 
describes Federal programs, guidelines, and detection technologies and 
identifies research challenges and security gaps.
  In 2015, GAO looked at how DNDO manages its $350 million research and 
development program. The report found that DNDO needs to do a better 
job of documenting how it chooses which projects to fund and how these 
investments align with security gaps and research challenges--
especially for vulnerabilities identified in the GNDA.
  H.R. 690 would resolve these issues by requiring DNDO to document the 
rationale it uses to prioritize research topics, explain how selected 
investments align with gaps and research challenges, and develop a 
systematic approach to evaluate the outcomes for individual projects. 
Such documentation is essential to ensure that DNDO is making the right 
research investments to keep the Nation secure.

[[Page H796]]

  Mr. Speaker, my bill, H.R. 690, would help DNDO use its limited 
resources toward projects that actually close the vulnerability gaps. 
Preventing and detecting nuclear smuggling is a complex endeavor. It 
requires seamless coordination between law enforcement and intelligence 
officials across the Federal Government.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 690, and I yield 
back the balance of my time.
  Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I once again urge my colleagues to support H.R. 690.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from New York (Mr. Donovan) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 690.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



