

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 34 (Monday, February 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 34 (Monday, February 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1447-S1448]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. Grassley, Mr. Leahy, and 
             Ms. Collins):
       S. 443. A bill to amend the Age Discrimination in 
     Employment Act of 1967 and other laws to clarify appropriate 
     standards for Federal employment discrimination and 
     retaliation claims, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. HEITKAMP (for herself and Mr. Heller):
       S. 444. A bill to amend the Investment Company Act of 1940 
     to expand the investor limitation for qualifying venture 
     capital funds under an exemption from the definition of an 
     investment company; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs.
           By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Mr. Cardin):
       S. 445. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to ensure more timely access to home health services for 
     Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare program; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr. Barrasso, Mr. Blunt, 
             Mr. Boozman, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Cochran, Mr. Crapo, Mr. 
             Cruz, Mr. Daines, Mr. Enzi, Mrs. Ernst, Mrs. Fischer, 
             Mr. Graham, Mr. Grassley, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Heller, Mr. 
             Hoeven, Mr. Isakson, Mr. McCain, Mr. Moran, Ms. 
             Murkowski, Mr. Perdue, Mr. Portman, Mr. Roberts, Mr. 
             Rounds, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Thune, Mr. Wicker, Mr. Young, 
             Mr. Johnson, and Mr. Flake):
       S. 446. A bill to allow reciprocity for the carrying of 
     certain concealed firearms; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Blumenthal, 
             Mr. Casey, Mrs. Feinstein, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. 
             Hatch, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Markey, Mr. McCain, Mr. 
             Peters, Mr. Schumer, Mr. Thune, Ms. Warren, and Mr. 
             Booker):
       S. 447. A bill to require reporting on acts of certain 
     foreign countries on Holocaust era assets and related issues; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Ms. Collins):
       S. 448. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for treatment of clinical psychologists as 
     physicians for purposes of furnishing clinical psychologist 
     services under the Medicare program; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. MARKEY:
       S. 449. A bill to promote worldwide access to the Internet, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations.
           By Mr. MANCHIN:
       S. 450. A bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal to 
     members of the Armed Forces who fought in defense of Guam, 
     Wake Island, and the Philippine Archipelago between December 
     7, 1941 and May 10, 1942, and who died or were imprisoned by 
     the Japanese military in the Philippines, Japan, Korea, 
     Manchuria, Wake Island, and Guam from April 9, 1942 until 
     September 2, 1945, in recognition of their personal sacrifice 
     and service to the United States; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr. Boozman):
       S. 451. A bill to amend the Water Resources Research Act of 
     1984 to reauthorize grants for and require applied water 
     supply research regarding the water resources research and 
     technology institutes established under that Act; to the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself, Mr. McCain, Mr. Wicker, Mrs. 
             Capito, and Mr. Cotton):
       S. 452. A bill to amend the Clean Air Act to delay the 
     enforcement and implementation of the 2015 national ambient 
     air quality standards for ozone; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself, Mr. McCain, and Mr. Cotton):
       S. 453. A bill to require the Administrator of the 
     Environmental Protection Agency to include in any proposed 
     rule that limits greenhouse gas emissions and imposes 
     increased costs on other Federal agencies an offset from 
     funds available to the Administrator for all projected 
     increased costs that the proposed rule would impose on other 
     Federal agencies; to the Committee on Environment and Public 
     Works.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself, Mr. McCain, and Mr. Cotton):
       S. 454. A bill to amend the Clean Air Act with respect to 
     exceptional event demonstrations, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. TESTER:
       S. 455. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to count resident time spent in a critical access 
     hospital as resident time spent in a nonprovider setting for 
     purposes of making Medicare direct and indirect graduate 
     medical education payments; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BENNET (for himself, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Van Hollen, 
             and Mr. Gardner):

[[Page S1448]]

  

       S. 456. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to establish a program to increase the 
     development of new drugs to treat pediatric cancers, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
     and Pensions.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr. Franken, and Mr. 
             Kaine):
       S. 457. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to 
     establish a scholarship program for educators of rural 
     students and provide for loan forgiveness for rural 
     educators, to amend the Elementary and Secondary Education 
     Act of 1965 to provide professional development grants for 
     rural elementary schools and secondary schools, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr. Franken, and Mr. 
             Udall):
       S. 458. A bill to support the education of Indian children; 
     to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. RUBIO:
       S. 459. A bill to designate the area between the 
     intersections of Wisconsin Avenue, Northwest and Davis 
     Street, Northwest and Wisconsin Avenue, Northwest and Edmunds 
     Street, Northwest in Washington, District of Columbia, as 
     ``Boris Nemtsov Plaza'' , and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Ms. HIRONO (for herself and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 460. A bill for the relief of Vichai Sae Tung (also 
     known as Chai Chaowasaree); to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself and Mr. Heller):
       S. 461. A bill to allow Homeland Security Grant Program 
     funds to be used to safeguard faith-based community centers 
     across the United States, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself, Mr. McConnell, Mr. Cornyn, 
             Mr. Barrasso, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Burr, Mrs. 
             Capito, Mr. Cassidy, Mr. Cochran, Ms. Collins, Mr. 
             Corker, Mr. Crapo, Mr. Cruz, Mr. Daines, Mr. Enzi, 
             Mrs. Ernst, Mrs. Fischer, Mr. Flake, Mr. Gardner, Mr. 
             Graham, Mr. Grassley, Mr. Heller, Mr. Hoeven, Mr. 
             Inhofe, Mr. Isakson, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. 
             Lankford, Mr. Lee, Mr. McCain, Mr. Moran, Ms. 
             Murkowski, Mr. Paul, Mr. Perdue, Mr. Portman, Mr. 
             Risch, Mr. Roberts, Mr. Rounds, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Sasse, 
             Mr. Scott, Mr. Shelby, Mr. Strange, Mr. Sullivan, Mr. 
             Thune, Mr. Tillis, Mr. Toomey, Mr. Wicker, and Mr. 
             Young):
       S.J. Res. 24. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States relative to balancing 
     the budget; to the Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



