

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 17 (Wednesday, February 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 17 (Wednesday, February 1, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H828]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     NATIONAL CATHOLIC SCHOOLS WEEK

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. Lipinski) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, today I rise in support of National 
Catholic Schools Week and to recognize the outstanding contributions 
that Catholic schools have made and continue to make to our Nation.
  As a proud graduate of St. Symphorosa Grammar School and St. Ignatius 
College Prep and as a strong supporter of Catholic education, I have 
introduced H. Res. 57, honoring January 29 through February 4 as 
National Catholic Schools Week. I would like to thank the gentleman 
from New Jersey (Mr. Smith) for working with me on this resolution and 
on other issues. Following his Catholic faith, Mr. Smith is one of our 
greatest defenders of freedom and human rights around the world.
  This year marks the 43rd anniversary of Catholic Schools Week. Since 
1974, Catholic Schools Week has celebrated the important role that 
these institutions play in America and their excellent reputation for 
providing a strong academic and moral education as well as teaching 
community responsibility and outreach.

                              {time}  1045

  This year's theme, ``Catholic Schools: Communities of Faith, 
Knowledge, and Service,'' highlights the values that are the 
centerpiece of a Catholic education.
  Today, over 2 million elementary and secondary school students are 
enrolled in over 6,600 Catholic schools. These students typically 
surpass their peers in math, science, reading, history, and geography 
in the NAEP test. The same is true for SAT scores. And the graduation 
rate for Catholic high school students is 99 percent, with 85 percent 
of graduates enrolling in a 4-year college. As we continually hear 
disturbing reports about our national test scores, these statistics are 
truly remarkable and should be commended.
  Notably, the success of Catholic schools does not depend on 
selectivity. These academic achievements are realized by students from 
all walks of life. Catholic schools accept 9 out of 10 students who 
apply and are highly effective in providing a quality education to 
students from every socioeconomic category, especially the 
disadvantaged and underserved urban communities. Over the past 30 
years, the percentage of minority students enrolled in Catholic schools 
has more than doubled, and today they constitute about one-third of all 
Catholic school students. In times of economic hardship, Catholic 
schools can provide an affordable alternative to other forms of private 
education.
  In addition to learning reading, writing, and arithmetic, students 
also learn responsibility and how to become persons of character and 
integrity. America's Catholic schools produce graduates with the skills 
and integrity needed by our businesses, governments, and communities, 
emphasizing a well-rounded educational experience and instilling the 
values of giving back to the community and helping others. That is why 
``service'' is in this year's Catholic Schools Week theme. My own 
decision to pursue a career in public service was fostered, in part, by 
dedicated teachers throughout my formative years at Catholic schools.
  I celebrated Catholic Schools Week last week at a number of schools 
in my district. I visited St. Barbara Grammar School, which is located 
in the Bridgeport neighborhood of Chicago. I met with Principal Nicole 
Nolazco and the student council, and I spoke to and took questions from 
an all-school assembly.
  I visited Everest Academy in Lemont, where Principal Lori Broncato 
and Father Jason gave me a tour of the quickly growing school, and I 
answered questions from students before the whole school wowed me with 
an impressive version of the song, ``America.''
  Finally, I visited my alma mater, St. Symphorosa, in the Clearing 
neighborhood in Chicago. I met with Principal Kathy Berry and Father 
Idzi and spoke to students about my experiences at St. Syms and how my 
Catholic education made it possible for me to serve in the U.S. 
Congress.
  These are just three of the many wonderful Catholic schools in my 
district that are part of the Chicago Archdiocese and the Joliet 
Diocese.
  Mr. Speaker, I hope my colleagues will join me in congratulating and 
thanking Catholic schools across the country, which provide first-
class, well-rounded educations and contribute so much to our Nation.

                          ____________________



