

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 37 (Thursday, March 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 37 (Thursday, March 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1579-S1582]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

      By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr. Tester, and Mr. Risch):
  S. 490. A bill to reinstate and extend the deadline for commencement 
of construction of a hydroelectric project involving the Gibson Dam; to 
the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
  Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, Montana is the fifth largest producer of 
hydropower in the Nation, with 23 hydroelectric dams contributing one-
third of all electricity production in Montana. The Gibson Dam project 
near Augusta, Montana will provide fifty to one hundred years of stable 
tax revenue for the state and local counties, reduce carbon emissions, 
create good-paying jobs, and will provide clean, reliable electricity 
to Montana. This bill would reinstate and provide a six-year extension 
of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission license, allowing Montana 
to continue to be a leader in clean, hydropower electricity.
  I thank Senators Tester and Risch for joining me on introducing this 
bill and I ask my colleagues to join me in supporting this bipartisan 
legislation.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.
  There being no objection, the text of the bill was ordered to be 
printed in the Record, as follows:

                                 S. 490

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. REINSTATEMENT AND EXTENSION OF TIME FOR FEDERAL 
                   ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION PROJECT INVOLVING 
                   GIBSON DAM.

       Notwithstanding the time period specified in section 13 of 
     the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 806) that would otherwise 
     apply to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission project 
     numbered 12478-003, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
     (referred to in this section as the ``Commission'') shall, at 
     the request of the licensee for the project, after reasonable 
     notice, and in accordance with the good faith, due diligence, 
     and public interest requirements of, and the procedures of 
     the Commission under, that section, reinstate the license and 
     extend the time period during which the licensee is required 
     to commence construction of the project for the 6-year period 
     that begins on the date of enactment of this Act.
                                 ______
                                 
      By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr. Tester, Mr. Risch, and Mr. 
        Crapo):
  S. 491. A bill to reinstate and extend the deadline for commencement 
of construction of a hydroelectric project involving Clark Canyon Dam; 
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
  Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, hydropower is a critical hcomponent of an 
all of the above energy portfolio that provides a reliable and 
affordable source of electricity for hard-working Montana families. 
Clark Canyon Dam hydropower project near Dillon, MT will power over 
1,000 homes annually in the region, create good-paying jobs, reduce 
carbon dioxide emissions, and produce hundreds of thousands of dollars 
in tax revenue for Montana. This bill would reinstate and provide a 3-
year contract extension of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
license, allowing Montana to continue to be a leader in clean, 
hydropower electricity.
  I thank Senators Tester, Risch and Crapo for joining me on 
introducing this bill, and I ask my colleagues to join me in supporting 
this bipartisan legislation.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.

[[Page S1580]]

  There being no objection, the text of the bill was ordered to be 
printed in the Record, as follows:

                                 S. 491

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. EXTENSION OF TIME FOR A FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY 
                   COMMISSION PROJECT INVOLVING CLARK CANYON DAM.

       Notwithstanding the time period described in section 13 of 
     the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 806) that would otherwise 
     apply to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission project 
     numbered 12429, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
     (referred to in this section as the ``Commission'') shall, at 
     the request of the licensee for the project, and after 
     reasonable notice and in accordance with the procedures of 
     the Commission under that section, reinstate the license and 
     extend the time period during which the licensee is required 
     to commence construction of project works for the 3-year 
     period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act.
                                 ______
                                 
      By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr. Casey):
  S. 492. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow 
members of the Ready Reserve of a reserve component of the Armed Forces 
to make elective deferrals on the basis of their service to the Ready 
Reserve and on the basis of their other employment; to the Committee on 
Finance.
  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of 
the bill be printed in the Record.
  There being no objection, the text of the bill was ordered to be 
printed in the Record, as follows:

                                 S. 492

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Servicemember Retirement 
     Improvement Act''.

     SEC. 2. ELECTIVE DEFERRALS BY MEMBERS OF THE READY RESERVE OF 
                   A RESERVE COMPONENT OF THE ARMED FORCES.

       (a) In General.--Section 402(g) of the Internal Revenue 
     Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(9) Elective deferrals by members of ready reserve.--
       ``(A) In general.--In the case of a qualified ready 
     reservist (other than a specified Federal employee ready 
     reservist) for any taxable year, the limitations of 
     subparagraphs (A) and (C) of paragraph (1) shall be applied 
     separately with respect to--
       ``(i) elective deferrals of such qualified ready reservist 
     with respect to the Thrift Savings Fund (as defined in 
     section 7701(j)), and
       ``(ii) any other elective deferrals of such qualified ready 
     reservist.
       ``(B) Special rule for federal employees in the ready 
     reserve not eligible to make elective deferrals to a plan 
     other than the thrift savings plan.--In the case of a 
     specified Federal employee ready reservist for any taxable 
     year--
       ``(i) the applicable dollar amount in effect under 
     paragraph (1)(B) for such taxable year shall be twice such 
     amount (as determined without regard to this subclause), and
       ``(ii) for purposes of paragraph (1)(C), the applicable 
     dollar amount under section 414(v)(2)(B)(i) (as otherwise 
     determined for purposes of paragraph (1)(C)) shall be twice 
     such amount (as determined without regard to this subclause).
       ``(C) Definitions.--For purposes of this paragraph--
       ``(i) Qualified ready reservist.--The term `qualified ready 
     reservist' means any individual for any taxable year if such 
     individual received compensation for service as a member of 
     the Ready Reserve of a reserve component (as defined in 
     section 101 of title 37, United States Code) during such 
     taxable year.
       ``(ii) Specified federal employee ready reservist.--The 
     term `specified Federal employee ready reservist' means any 
     individual for any taxable year if such individual--

       ``(I) is a qualified ready reservist for such taxable year,
       ``(II) would be eligible to make elective deferrals with 
     respect to the Thrift Savings Fund (as defined in section 
     7701(j)) during such taxable year determined without regard 
     to the service of such individual described in clause (i), 
     and
       ``(III) is not eligible to make elective deferrals with 
     respect to any plan other than such Thrift Savings Fund 
     during such taxable year.''.

       (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section 
     shall apply to taxable years beginning after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act.
                                 ______
                                 
      By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Booker, Ms. 
        Cantwell, Mr. Blumenthal, and Mr. Peters):
  S. 503. A bill to require the Secretary of Agriculture to make 
publicly available certain regulatory records relating to the 
administration of the Animal Welfare Act and the Horse Protection Act, 
to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for the use of an 
alternative depreciation system for taxpayers violating rules under the 
Animal Welfare Act and the Horse Protection Act, and for other 
purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, today I am introducing the Animal Welfare 
Accountability and Transparency Act. This bill is a necessary step to 
restoring public information on animal cruelty that was removed from 
the U.S. Department of Agriculture's, USDA, Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service, APHIS, website under the Trump administration.
  On February 3, 2017, APHIS removed information from its website 
related to oversight and enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act, AWA, 
and Horse Protection Act, HPA, including animal inspection and 
licensing reports for more than 9,000 licensed facilities that use 
animals--facilities like commercial dog breeding operators, animal 
research labs, roadside zoos, and horse show participants. Since 2009, 
APHIS has made this information public to increase transparency and 
hold violators of these animal cruelty laws accountable. This 
information is now hidden from the public and is only available through 
a Freedom of Information Act Request, which can take months and 
sometimes even years for an agency to respond.
  The Animal Welfare Accountability and Transparency Act restores 
transparency by requiring APHIS to once again make AWA and HPA 
inspection reports accessible to the public. In my view, transparency 
is key when it comes to giving animal lovers and consumers information 
about whether their pets or the products they buy are the result of 
heartbreaking beginnings. These inspection reports also help law 
enforcement officials track and understand trends in animal welfare 
violations.
  Preventing animal cruelty starts with getting facts out to consumers. 
By shedding light on AWA and HPA violations, the Animal Welfare 
Accountability and Transparency Act holds accountable puppy mill 
operators and other businesses that use animals for breeding, research, 
and testing.
  To ensure that taxpayers are not paying for entities that violate 
animal welfare laws, the Animal Welfare Accountability and Transparency 
Act also prohibits businesses that are found to be in violation of the 
AWA or HPA from collecting certain tax benefits.
  Under current tax and accounting rules, companies can write off the 
value of breeding and working animals on their taxes using accelerated 
depreciation, as if those animals are machinery. They keep that 
preferential and valuable tax benefit, even if they violate animal 
cruelty laws. The Animal Welfare Accountability and Transparency Act 
puts an end to this practice and holds companies accountable for 
breaking the law by prohibiting businesses found to have violated AWA 
or HPA from claiming accelerated depreciation for tax purposes for five 
years.
  The Animal Welfare Accountability and Transparency Act is a much 
needed step to restore transparency in animal cruelty and to hold 
companies accountable for violating the law.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.
  There being no objection, the text of the bill was ordered to be 
printed in the Record, as follows:

                                 S. 503

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Animal Welfare 
     Accountability and Transparency Act''.

     SEC. 2. PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF REGULATORY RECORDS.

       Notwithstanding any other provision of law, not later than 
     90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
     Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in this section as the 
     ``Secretary'') shall maintain and promptly make available to 
     the public in an online searchable database in a machine-
     readable format on the website of the Department of 
     Agriculture information relating to the administration of the 
     Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2131 et seq.) and the Horse 
     Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 1821 et seq.), including--
       (1) the entirety of each report of any inspection 
     conducted, and record of any enforcement action taken, 
     under--
       (A) either of those Acts; or
       (B) any regulation issued under those Acts;

[[Page S1581]]

       (2) with respect to the Animal Welfare Act--
       (A) the entirety of each annual report submitted by a 
     research facility under section 13 of that Act (7 U.S.C. 
     2143); and
       (B) the name, address, and license or registration number 
     of each research facility, exhibitor, dealer, and other 
     person or establishment--
       (i) licensed by the Secretary under section 3 or 12 of that 
     Act (7 U.S.C. 2133, 2142); or
       (ii) registered with the Secretary under section 6 of that 
     Act (7 U.S.C. 2136); and
       (3) with respect to the Horse Protection Act, the name and 
     address of--
       (A) any person that is licensed to conduct any inspection 
     under section 4(c) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 1823(c)); or
       (B) any organization or association that is licensed by the 
     Department of Agriculture to promote horses through--
       (i) the showing, exhibiting, sale, auction, or registry of 
     horses; or
       (ii) the conduct of any activity that contributes to the 
     advancement of horses.

     SEC. 3. USE OF ALTERNATIVE DEPRECIATION SYSTEM FOR TAXPAYERS 
                   VIOLATING CERTAIN ANIMAL PROTECTION RULES.

       (a) In General.--Section 168(g)(1) of the Internal Revenue 
     Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``and'' at the end of 
     subparagraph (D), by inserting ``and'' at the end of 
     subparagraph (E), and by inserting after subparagraph (E) the 
     following new subparagraph:
       ``(F) any property placed in service by a disqualified 
     taxpayer during an applicable period,''.
       (b) Definitions.--Section 168(g) of the Internal Revenue 
     Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following 
     new paragraph:
       ``(8) Disqualified taxpayer; applicable period.--For 
     purposes of paragraph (1)(F)--
       ``(A) Disqualified taxpayer.--
       ``(i) In general.--The term `disqualified taxpayer' means 
     any taxpayer if such taxpayer--

       ``(I) has been assessed a civil penalty under section 19(b) 
     of the Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2149(b)) or section 6(b) 
     of the Horse Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 1825(b)) and either 
     the period for seeking judicial review of the final agency 
     action has lapsed or there has been a final judgment with 
     respect to an appeal of such assessment, or
       ``(II) has been convicted under section 19(d) of the Animal 
     Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2149(d)) or section 6(a) of the Horse 
     Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 1825(a)) and there is a final 
     judgment with respect to such conviction.

       ``(ii) Aggregation rules.--All persons treated as a single 
     employer under subsection (a) or (b) of section 52, or 
     subsection (m) or (o) of section 414, shall be treated as one 
     taxpayer for purposes of this subparagraph.
       ``(B) Applicable period.--The term `applicable period' 
     means, with respect to any violation described in 
     subparagraph (A), the 5-taxable year period beginning with 
     the taxable year in which the period for seeking judicial 
     review of a civil penalty described in subparagraph (A)(i) 
     has lapsed or in which there has been a final judgment 
     entered with respect to the violation, whichever is 
     earlier.''.
       (c) Conforming Amendment.--The last sentence of section 
     179(d)(1) is amended by inserting ``or any property placed in 
     service by a disqualified taxpayer (as defined in section 
     168(g)(8)(A)) during an applicable period (as defined in 
     section 168(g)(8)(B))'' after ``section 50(b)''.
       (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section 
     shall apply to property placed in service in taxable years 
     beginning after the date of the enactment of this section.
                                 ______
                                 
      By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr. Merkley):
  S. 513. A bill to designate the Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild Steelhead 
Special Management Area in the State of Oregon; to the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources.
  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, today I am reintroducing a bill honoring 
two Oregon legends--Frank and Jeanne Moore--who have spent their lives 
together on the North Umpqua River as fishers, stewards of the land, 
and hosts to visitors from across the world at the famous Steamboat 
Inn.
  The North Umpqua River runs through the Umpqua National Forest in 
Southwest Oregon. The river is a destination for rafters and kayakers, 
and is home to some of the best steelhead runs in the world, making it 
a fly-fishing haven. Frank and Jeanne Moore founded the Steamboat Inn 
in 1957, and spent years introducing visitors to the beauty of the 
Umpqua National Forest and the North Umpqua River. Frank, a decorated 
WWII veteran and a recent inductee into the Freshwater Fishing Hall of 
Fame, was the fishing guide for the Inn's visitors, and has now been 
fishing this river for 70 years. The Steamboat Inn's website paints a 
wonderful picture of how Frank and Jeanne welcomed visitors to the 
North Umpqua River:
  ``Each night, Jeanne Moore cooked evening meals for as many as sixty 
road construction crew members, who ate in shifts, before turning her 
attention to feeding her lodge guests. Frank pitched in, helped with 
the cooking, and also made a policy decision that would henceforth 
guide the Fisherman's Dinner: From then on, anglers could fish until 
the last light disappeared on the river. Dinner would be served one 
half hour after sunset!''
  In the 1960's, the river and its tributaries experienced significant 
degradation, and Frank Moore has worked tirelessly ever since to 
rehabilitate the river and the steelhead populations. Frank served on 
the State of Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commission and has received the 
National Wildlife Federation Conservationist of the Year award and the 
Wild Steelhead Coalition Conservation Award. He works with his 
neighbors and local organizations to monitor the river, and just about 
everyone he comes across on his drives along the river knows his name 
and knows his work. Frank and Jeanne have opened their door to visitors 
and have taken great care of this Oregon treasure.
  The Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild Steelhead Special Management Area 
will stand as a tribute to the Moore's and their dedication to 
protecting this special place in Oregon and preserving the hard work 
they've put in to ensure that Oregonians and visitors alike will have a 
healthy river, full of steelhead, to visit for decades to come.
  It is my honor to reintroduce this bill today with my colleague from 
Oregon, Senator Jeff Merkley, on behalf of these extraordinary 
Oregonians.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be 
printed in the Record.
  There being no objection, the text of the bill was ordered to be 
printed in the Record, as follows:

                                 S. 513

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild 
     Steelhead Special Management Area Designation Act''.

     SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

       Congress finds that--
       (1) Frank Moore has committed his life to family, friends, 
     his country, and fly fishing;
       (2) Frank Moore is a World War II veteran who stormed the 
     beaches of Normandy along with 150,000 troops during the D-
     Day Allied invasion and was awarded the Chevalier of the 
     French Legion of Honor for his bravery;
       (3) Frank Moore returned home after the war, started a 
     family, and pursued his passion of fishing on the winding 
     rivers in Oregon;
       (4) as the proprietor of the Steamboat Inn along the North 
     Umpqua River in Oregon for nearly 20 years, Frank Moore, 
     along with his wife Jeanne, shared his love of fishing, the 
     flowing river, and the great outdoors, with visitors from all 
     over the United States and the world;
       (5) Frank Moore has spent most of his life fishing the vast 
     rivers of Oregon, during which time he has contributed 
     significantly to efforts to conserve fish habitats and 
     protect river health, including serving on the State of 
     Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commission;
       (6) Frank Moore has been recognized for his conservation 
     work with the National Wildlife Federation Conservationist of 
     the Year award, the Wild Steelhead Coalition Conservation 
     Award, and his 2010 induction into the Fresh Water Fishing 
     Hall of Fame; and
       (7) in honor of the many accomplishments of Frank Moore, 
     both on and off the river, approximately 99,653 acres of 
     Forest Service land in the State of Oregon should be 
     designated as the ``Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild Steelhead 
     Special Management Area''.

     SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

       In this Act:
       (1) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Frank 
     Moore Wild Steelhead Special Management Area Designation 
     Act'' and dated June 23, 2016.
       (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
     of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest 
     Service.
       (3) Special management area.--The term ``Special Management 
     Area'' means the Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild Steelhead 
     Special Management Area designated by section 4(a).
       (4) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Oregon.

     SEC. 4. FRANK AND JEANNE MOORE WILD STEELHEAD SPECIAL 
                   MANAGEMENT AREA, OREGON.

       (a) Designation.--The approximately 99,653 acres of Forest 
     Service land in the State, as generally depicted on the Map, 
     is designated as the ``Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild Steelhead 
     Special Management Area''.
       (b) Map; Legal Description.--
       (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
     enactment of this Act, the

[[Page S1582]]

     Secretary shall prepare a map and legal description of the 
     Special Management Area.
       (2) Force of law.--The map and legal description prepared 
     under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as 
     if included in this Act, except that the Secretary may 
     correct clerical and typographical errors in the map and 
     legal description.
       (3) Availability.--The map and legal description prepared 
     under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public 
     inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest Service.
       (c) Administration.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
     Special Management Area shall be administered by the 
     Secretary--
       (1) in accordance with all laws (including regulations) 
     applicable to the National Forest System; and
       (2) in a manner that--
       (A) conserves and enhances the natural character, 
     scientific use, and the botanical, recreational, ecological, 
     fish and wildlife, scenic, drinking water, and cultural 
     values of the Special Management Area;
       (B) maintains and seeks to enhance the wild salmonid 
     habitat of the Special Management Area;
       (C) maintains or enhances the watershed as a thermal refuge 
     for wild salmonids; and
       (D) preserves opportunities for recreation, including 
     primitive recreation.
       (d) Fish and Wildlife.--Nothing in this section affects the 
     jurisdiction or responsibilities of the State with respect to 
     fish and wildlife in the State.
       (e) Adjacent Management.--Nothing in this section--
       (1) creates any protective perimeter or buffer zone around 
     the Special Management Area; or
       (2) modifies the applicable travel management plan for the 
     Special Management Area.
       (f) Wildfire Management.--Nothing in this section prohibits 
     the Secretary, in cooperation with other Federal, State, and 
     local agencies, as appropriate, from conducting wildland fire 
     operations in the Special Management Area, consistent with 
     the purposes of this Act, including the use of aircraft, 
     machinery, mechanized equipment, fire breaks, backfires, and 
     retardant.
       (g) Vegetation Management.--Nothing in this section 
     prohibits the Secretary from conducting vegetation management 
     projects within the Special Management Area in a manner 
     consistent with--
       (1) the purposes described in subsection (c); and
       (2) the applicable forest plan.
       (h) Protection of Tribal Rights.--Nothing in this section 
     diminishes any treaty rights of an Indian tribe.
       (i) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
     Federal land within the boundaries of the Special Management 
     Area river segments designated by subsection (a) is withdrawn 
     from all forms of--
       (1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land 
     laws;
       (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
       (3) disposition under all laws relating to mineral and 
     geothermal leasing or mineral materials.
                                 ______
                                 
      By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Kennedy, and Mr. 
        Barrasso):
  S.J. Res. 29. A joint resolution providing for congressional 
disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the 
final rule of the Office of Natural Resources Revenue of the Department 
of the Interior relating to consolidated Federal oil and gas and 
Federal and Indian coal valuation reform; to the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources.
  Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, as a fifth-generation Montanan and having 
spent 18 years in the private sector, I know how important it is to 
receive your fair share in any deal. However, the Office of Natural 
Resources Revenue Consolidated Federal oil and gas and Federal and 
Indian coal valuation reform rule does not protect the taxpayers' fair 
share of mineral royalties as finalized. The rule as finalized creates 
high uncertainty and, at worst, could cause many energy operators 
across the country to shut-in what is already very capital-intensive 
production, placing our Nation's energy and infrastructure security and 
good-paying energy jobs at risk. The rule could leave the taxpayer at a 
net loss in royalties. This resolution would halt implementation of the 
final ONRR valuation rule, a rule whose implementation is already 
postponed due to litigation, allowing the States and producers to work 
with the Department of the Interior to reform valuation in a common-
sense way.
  I thank Senators Hatch and Kennedy for joining me on introducing this 
resolution, and I ask my colleagues to join me in supporting this 
legislation.
  Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of the joint 
resolution be printed in the Record.
  There being no objection, the text of the joint resolution was 
ordered to be printed in the Record, as follows:

                              S.J. Res. 29

       Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
     United States of America in Congress assembled, That Congress 
     disapproves the rule submitted by the Office of Natural 
     Resources Revenue of the Department of the Interior relating 
     to ``Consolidated Federal Oil & Gas and Federal & Indian Coal 
     Valuation Reform'' (published at 81 Fed. Reg. 43337 (July 1, 
     2016)), and such rule shall have no force or effect.

                          ____________________



