

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H472]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]

            By Mr. GOSAR:
        H.R. 482.
        Congress has the power to enactthis legislation pursuant 
     to the following:
       Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 affords Congress the power 
     to legislate on thismatter. The executive branch, through the 
     Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), has 
     misinterpreted its authorityunder the Fair Housing Act of 
     1968, as demonstrated in its Affirmatively Furthering Fair 
     Housing Rule. Two cases before theUnited States Supreme 
     Court--Magner v. Gallagher and Mount Holly v. Mount Holly 
     Gardens Citizens in Action--were settled less thana month 
     before the Court entertained oral arguments. The plaintiffs 
     were concerned that their challenges would not be affirmedby 
     the Court. The Court is currently considering a case, Texas 
     Department of Housing and Community Affairs v. The 
     InclusiveCommunities Project, which may set a precedent for 
     the issue of ``disparate impact.'' Regardless, Congress has 
     the legislativeauthority to address the Affirmatively 
     Furthering Fair Housing rule head on and prevent that rule, 
     or any substantially similarsuccessor rule.
       Section 3 of this bill is authorized through clause 7 of 
     section 9 of article I of the Constitution of theUnited 
     States (the appropriation power), which states: ``No Money 
     shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in Consequence 
     ofAppropriations made by Law . . .''
       Section 4 of the bill promotes a core component of our 
     republic known as federalism. Itrequires the executive 
     branch, through HUD, to consult with State and local 
     officials to further the purposes and policies ofthe Fair 
     Housing Act.


