

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 54 (Tuesday, March 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 54 (Tuesday, March 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2515-H2516]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia (for himself, Ms. Speier, Mr. 
             David Scott of Georgia, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. 
             Beyer, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Norton, Mr. Hastings, Mr. 
             Connolly, and Mr. Lewis of Georgia):
       H.R. 1746. A bill to prohibit certain individuals from 
     possessing a firearm in an airport, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Homeland Security, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. PALLONE (for himself and Mr. Tonko):
       H.R. 1747. A bill to amend the Comprehensive Environmental 
     Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 to 
     reauthorize and improve the Brownfields revitalization 
     program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself, Ms. Adams, Ms. 
             Bass, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Brown of Maryland, Ms. Brownley of California, Ms. 
             Judy Chu of California, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, 
             Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Clay, Mr. Correa, Mr. 
             Cummings, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mrs. Davis 
             of California, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Al 
             Green of Texas, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. 
             Jayapal, Mr. Jeffries, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. 
             Kihuen, Mr. Langevin, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Lawson of 
             Florida, Ms. Lee, Ms. Moore, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. 
             Nolan, Mr. Norcross, Ms. Norton, Mr. Payne, Mr. 
             Polis, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Rush, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, 
             Mr. Sablan, Mr. Sarbanes, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. David 
             Scott of Georgia, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, 
             Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Takano, Mrs. Torres, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Swalwell of California, and 
             Ms. Blunt Rochester):
       H.R. 1748. A bill to provide at-risk and disconnected youth 
     with subsidized summer and year-round employment and to 
     assist local community partnerships in improving high school 
     graduation and youth employment rates, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS:
       H.R. 1749. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to establish a pilot program for the provision of 
     dental care to certain veterans, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Iowa (for himself, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. 
             King of Iowa, Mr. Peterson, Mr. Blum, and Mr. 
             LaHood):
       H.R. 1750. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to expand certain exceptions to the private activity 
     bond rules for first-time farmers, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia:
       H.R. 1751. A bill to impose sanctions in response to cyber 
     intrusions by the Government of the Russian Federation and 
     other aggressive activities of the Russian Federation, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and 
     in addition to the Committees on the Judiciary, Financial 
     Services, Oversight and Government Reform, Armed Services, 
     and Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BRAT (for himself and Mr. Gaetz):
       H.R. 1752. A bill to prohibit mandatory or compulsory 
     checkoff programs; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. BRAT (for himself and Ms. Titus):
       H.R. 1753. A bill to prohibit certain practices relating to 
     certain commodity promotion programs, to require greater 
     transparency by those programs, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. LATTA (for himself and Mr. Olson):
       H.R. 1754. A bill to amend the Federal Trade Commission Act 
     to clarify the scope of the exception for common carriers; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
       H.R. 1755. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to clarify that products derived from tar sands are 
     crude oil for purposes of the Federal excise tax on 
     petroleum, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mrs. COMSTOCK (for herself, Mr. Wittman, and Mr. 
             Griffith):
       H.R. 1756. A bill to require the Secretary of the Interior 
     to conduct offshore oil and gas Lease Sale 220 as soon as 
     practicable, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois (for himself, Ms. 
             Kelly of Illinois, and Mrs. Bustos):
       H.R. 1757. A bill to address the psychological, 
     developmental, social, and emotional needs of children, 
     youth, and families who have experienced trauma, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committees on Energy and 
     Commerce, Ways and Means, and the Judiciary, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. ESTY (for herself, Mr. Katko, Mr. DeFazio, and 
             Mrs. Napolitano):

[[Page H2516]]

  

       H.R. 1758. A bill to amend the Comprehensive Environmental 
     Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 to modify 
     provisions relating to brownfield remediation grants, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself, Ms. Lee, Mr. Connolly, 
             Mr. Langevin, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Schakowsky, 
             Ms. McSally, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. 
             Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. Cohen, and Mr. 
             Blumenauer):
       H.R. 1759. A bill to amend the Animal Welfare Act to 
     restrict the use of exotic and wild animals in traveling 
     performances; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. GROTHMAN:
       H.R. 1760. A bill to amend the Food and Nutrition Act of 
     2008 to eliminate the authority of the Secretary of 
     Agriculture to grant a waiver from the work requirements for 
     participation in the supplemental nutrition assistance 
     program on account of an area's high unemployment rate or 
     limited employment availability for individuals who reside in 
     the area; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana:
       H.R. 1761. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     criminalize the knowing consent of the visual depiction, or 
     live transmission, of a minor engaged in sexually explicit 
     conduct, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Young of 
             Alaska, Mrs. McMorris Rodgers, Mrs. Brooks of 
             Indiana, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. Meehan, Ms. 
             Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, and Ms. 
             Speier):
       H.R. 1762. A bill to promote pro bono legal services as a 
     critical way in which to empower survivors of domestic 
     violence; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York:
       H.R. 1763. A bill to direct the Attorney General to carry 
     out a pilot program to provide grants to eligible entities to 
     divert individuals with low-level drug offenses to prebooking 
     diversion programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MESSER:
       H.R. 1764. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to exclude room and board costs and certain research 
     expenses from gross income of certain students; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 1765. A bill to provide that the authority to grant 
     clemency for offenses against the District of Columbia shall 
     be exercised in accordance with law enacted by the District 
     of Columbia; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee (for himself and Mrs. 
             Blackburn):
       H.R. 1766. A bill to prohibit conditioning health care 
     provider licensure on participation in a health plan or the 
     meaningful use of electronic health records; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. RUSSELL:
       H.R. 1767. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to discontinue certain administrative cost allowances, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. RUSSELL:
       H.R. 1768. A bill to provide that no additional Federal 
     funds may be made available for National Heritage Areas, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. VALADAO:
       H.R. 1769. A bill to affirm an agreement between the United 
     States and Westlands Water District dated September 15, 2015, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mrs. COMSTOCK (for herself, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Connolly, 
             Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mr. Delaney, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Raskin, and Mr. Hoyer):
       H.J. Res. 92. A joint resolution granting the consent and 
     approval of Congress for the Commonwealth of Virginia, the 
     State of Maryland, and the District of Columbia to amend the 
     Washington Area Transit Regulation Compact; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



