

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 35 (Tuesday, February 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 35 (Tuesday, February 28, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1500-S1501]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. HELLER (for himself, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Donnelly, 
             and Mr. Toomey):
       S. 462. A bill to require the Securities and Exchange 
     Commission to refund or credit certain excess payments made 
     to the Commission; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr. Carper):
       S. 463. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to establish a national Oncology Medical Home 
     Demonstration Project under the Medicare program for the 
     purpose of changing the Medicare payment for cancer care in 
     order to enhance the quality of care and to improve cost 
     efficiency, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr. Portman, Mr. Bennet, 
             and Mr. Cornyn):
       S. 464. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for a permanent Independence at Home medical 
     practice program under the Medicare program; to the Committee 
     on Finance.
           By Mr. ROUNDS:
       S. 465. A bill to provide for an independent outside audit 
     of the Indian Health Service; to the Committee on Indian 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself and Mr. McCain):
       S. 466. A bill to clarify the description of certain 
     Federal land under the Northern Arizona Land Exchange and 
     Verde River Basin Partnership Act of 2005 to include 
     additional land in the Kaibab National Forest; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. FLAKE:
       S. 467. A bill to provide for the disposal of certain 
     Bureau of Land Management land in Mohave County, Arizona, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself, Mr. McCain, Mr. Heller, and 
             Mr. Hatch):
       S. 468. A bill to establish a procedure for resolving 
     claims to certain rights-of-way; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. SANDERS (for himself, Mr. Booker, Mr. Casey, Mr. 
             Heinrich, Mr. King, Mr. Whitehouse, Ms. Klobuchar, 
             Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Brown, Mr. Reed, Mr. Franken, 
             Ms. Baldwin, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Udall, Ms. Stabenow, 
             Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. Cantwell, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, and Mr. Manchin):
       S. 469. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to allow for the importation of affordable and 
     safe drugs by wholesale distributors, pharmacies, and 
     individuals; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
     and Pensions.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Brown, Ms. 
             Stabenow, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Cardin, and Mr. Menendez):
       S. 470. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to enhance the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit and make 
     the credit fully refundable; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. TESTER:
       S. 471. A bill to preserve State authority to regulate air 
     carriers providing air ambulance service; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. MORAN:
       S. 472. A bill to lift the trade embargo on Cuba, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr. Franken, Mr. Van 
             Hollen, Ms. Hassan, and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 473. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     make qualification requirements for entitlement to Post-9/11 
     Education Assistance more equitable, to improve support of 
     veterans receiving such educational assistance, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. GRAHAM (for himself, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Cotton, Mr. 
             Scott, Mr. Cruz, Mr. Burr, Mr. Thune, Mr. Rubio, and 
             Mr. Boozman):
       S. 474. A bill to condition assistance to the West Bank and 
     Gaza on steps by the Palestinian Authority to end violence 
     and terrorism against Israeli citizens; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr. Heinrich):
       S. 475. A bill to increase research, education, and 
     treatment for cerebral cavernous malformations; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. RUBIO:
       S. 476. A bill to exempt health insurance of residents of 
     United States territories from the annual fee on health 
     insurance providers; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Mr. Casey):
       S. 477. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     coordinate Federal congenital heart disease research and 
     surveillance efforts and to improve public education and 
     awareness of congenital heart disease, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. ALEXANDER (for himself, Mr. Cassidy, Mr. Cotton, 
             Mr. Cornyn, Mr. McCain, Mr. McConnell, Mr. Perdue, 
             Mr. Roberts, Mr. Wicker, and Mr. Enzi):
       S.J. Res. 25. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by the Department of 
     Education relating to accountability and State plans

[[Page S1501]]

     under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965; to 
     the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.

                          ____________________



