

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 7 (Wednesday, January 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H374]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





 2016 NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL STRATEGY--MESSAGEFROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE 
                   UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 115-5)

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Dunn) laid before the House the 
following message from the President of the United States;which was 
read and, together with the accompanying papers, referred to the 
Committee on the Judiciary, Committee on Agriculture,Committee on Armed 
Services, Committee on Energy and Commerce, Committee on Education and 
the Workforce, Committee on FinancialServices, Committee on Homeland 
Security, Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Committee on 
Foreign Affairs, Committeeon Natural Resources, Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure, Committee on Ways and Means, 
Committee on Veterans'Affairs, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
Intelligence and ordered to be printed:

To the Congress of the United States:
  I am pleased to transmit the 2016 National Drug Control Strategy 
summarizing the accomplishments of my Administration's21st century 
approach to drug policy and opportunities to continue to reduce the 
burden of substance use in the United States.My Administration released 
its first Strategy in 2010 with a commitment to use the best available 
science and to consultbroadly to develop a balanced and comprehensive 
approach to drug policy that incorporates both public health and public 
safetyapproaches to address this complex problem.
  We set aggressive goals to reduce drug use by 2015 and though the 
results of our efforts are mixed, we have seen progress inreducing drug 
use and in cooperation both nationally and internationally. As a Nation 
we exceeded our goals for reducing alcoholand tobacco use among youth 
and for reducing the number of new HIV infections attributable to drug 
use. We have been lesssuccessful in reducing illicit drugs in youth and 
young adults as well as reducing the number of drug-induced deaths and 
drivingwhile drugged. We also face serious challenges including an 
epidemic of opioid use and overdose deaths as well as growingthreats 
from drug trafficking organizations involved in manufacturing and 
distributing cocaine and synthetic drugs, includingnovel psychoactive 
substances. These threats may continue to have an impact on drug use 
across lifespans, particularly chronicdrug use and its consequences 
that contribute to poor academic performance, crime, underemployment, 
lost productivity, andhealth care costs, all of which threaten families 
and communities.
  My Administration has consistently sought a broad coalition of 
partners to provide input into the development andenhancement of the 
Strategy during the past 7 years. We have invested in science to better 
understand the nature ofaddiction and inform the prevention and 
treatment of addiction and support services to help maintain recovery 
in the community.We have sought to use medical terms and non-
stigmatizing language when discussing substance use disorders, and 
those who sufferfrom this disease. Our support for law enforcement has 
led to significant outcomes in taking down drug trafficking 
organizationsand removing millions of pounds of drugs from the market. 
And our work with our international partners has been instrumental 
inour allies' increasing regulation of chemical precursors to synthetic 
drugs and reducing their movement across the globe.Throughout my 
Administration, we have used the best available evidence to balance the 
Nation's public health and public safetyand drive collaborative efforts 
to create healthier, safer, and more prosperous communities.
  The Nation's work in reducing drug use and its consequences is not 
done and there are many opportunities for advancingefforts to address 
ongoing and emerging challenges. I thank the Congress for its continued 
support of our efforts and ask thatyou continue to support this vital 
endeavor.
                                                        Barack Obama.  
The White House, January 11, 2017.

                          ____________________



