

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 8 (Thursday, January 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H394-H395]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            HIGHLIGHTING THE IMPORTANCE OF RURAL HEALTH CARE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, before I was elected to 
serve in the House of Representatives, I spent nearly 30years in the 
nonprofit healthcare field assisting those individuals who were facing 
life-changing diseases and disability.Additionally, as a member of my 
home community, I have volunteered for decades as an emergency medical 
technician, serving myneighbors in their time of trauma or medical 
emergency needs.
  I am acutely aware of the challenges many face when it comes to 
obtaining reasonably priced health care. It is especiallycritical for 
rural America, like much of the Fifth Congressional District of 
Pennsylvania.
  We are facing a healthcare crisis in our Nation's rural areas. These 
often disadvantaged populations are still struggling toaccess 
affordable, quality care. Many remain uninsured. Many find themselves 
newly uninsured as a result of the pressures andthe demands and the 
mandates of the Affordable Care Act. Most are underinsured; however, 
access to quality care really doesremain the largest challenge.
  Even when people gain access to health insurance or coverage, it does 
not equal access to care. Rural hospitals across thecountry are 
closing, leaving patients without access to their emergency rooms and 
long-term care facilities. When you close ahospital in a rural area, 
the result is a commute that means the difference, frequently, between 
life and death.
  Eighty rural hospitals have closed since 2010. One in three rural 
hospitals are financially vulnerable. At the currentclosure rate, more 
than 25 percent of rural hospitals will close in less than a decade.
  As this Congress examines ways to improve our Nation's healthcare 
system, we must not forget that rural health care isunique and requires 
different programs to succeed.
  In addition to hospital closures, a workforce shortage plagues rural 
America; 77 percent of more than 2,000 rural countiesin the United 
States are designated as having a shortage of healthcare professionals. 
Recruitment and retention of experiencedprofessionals, including 
primary care physicians, is an ongoing challenge.

                              {time}  1015

  Mr. Speaker, no matter how you pay for health care, if there are not 
qualified and trained professionals in thosecommunities, healthcare 
access does not exist. Congress must act to stop cuts to rural 
hospitals and strengthen the healthcareworkforce in underserved areas.
  Furthermore, the opioid epidemic that is sweeping the Nation has 
ravaged our rural communities, leaving

[[Page H395]]

even more ofthe population in need of crucial health services. 
Adolescents and young adults living in rural areas are more vulnerable 
toopioid abuse than their urban counterparts. The prevalence of fatal 
drug overdoses has skyrocketed in rural areas. Highunemployment and a 
greater rate of the types of injuries that result in prescriptions for 
opioid medications have contributed tothis.
  For these reasons, I again look forward to cosponsoring the Save 
Rural Hospitals Act in the 115th Congress. We must ensureaccess to 
health care for Americans living in rural areas.
  On average, trauma victims in rural areas must travel twice as far as 
victims in urban areas to the closest hospital. As aresult, 60 percent 
of trauma deaths occur in rural areas, even though only 20 percent of 
Americans live in rural areas.
  The Affordable Care Act was supposed to help cut costs for health 
care, but that did not happen for everyone. Americanfamilies have found 
out the hard way, with increased taxes, looming regulations, and a slew 
of broken promises, from untrue costcontrols to limitations on consumer 
choice. We were told that, ``if you like your coverage, you can keep 
it.'' Well, that wasnot even close to being true.
  I look forward to working with my colleagues to fix our flawed 
healthcare system. Currently, healthcare costs have gone up,premiums 
have increased by double digits, but choices have decreased. 
Deductibles are so high that many Americans, despitehaving 
``coverage,'' cannot afford to seek care under that coverage. Well, 
that is not right. It is not fair, and it is notfeasible. There must be 
a better way, and I know together we can work to find a stable 
transition to a 21st century healthcaresystem that works for everyone 
in America, particularly for those in rural regions where the need is 
great and the services arescarce.

                          ____________________



