

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 28 (Tuesday, February 13, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 28 (Tuesday, February 13, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1125-H1126]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee (for himself and Mr. Norcross):
       H.R. 4997. A bill to amend the Employee Retirement Income 
     Security Act of 1974 and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
     authorize a new composite multiemployer pension plan design, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. BASS (for herself, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. 
             Cardenas, Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. Castor of 
             Florida, and Mr. Kennedy):
       H.R. 4998. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to ensure health insurance coverage continuity for former 
     foster youth; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself, Mr. Cummings, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Ms. DeLauro, 
             Mr. Ellison, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Raskin, Ms. Schakowsky, and Ms. Slaughter):
       H.R. 4999. A bill to amend the Truth in Lending Act to 
     address certain issues relating to the extension of consumer 
     credit, and

[[Page H1126]]

     for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. BRAT:
       H.R. 5000. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     allow certain persons to own and control an air carrier 
     providing air transportation or intrastate air 
     transportation, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. CROWLEY (for himself and Mr. Lowenthal):
       H.R. 5001. A bill to award a Congressional gold medal to 
     Billie Jean King, in recognition of her contribution to the 
     nation and her courageous and groundbreaking leadership 
     advancing equal rights for women and the LGBT community in 
     athletics, education, and our society; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mrs. DINGELL (for herself and Mr. Upton):
       H.R. 5002. A bill to expand the unique research initiatives 
     authority of the National Institutes of Health; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. HULTGREN (for himself, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. 
             Messer, Mr. Royce of California, Mr. Kildee, and Mr. 
             Capuano):
       H.R. 5003. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to reinstate advance refunding bonds; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself and Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 5004. A bill to protect the rights of passengers with 
     disabilities in air transportation, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. LAWSON of Florida (for himself, Mr. Deutch, Mr. 
             Hastings, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Mr. Posey, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mrs. 
             Murphy of Florida, Mr. Rutherford, Ms. Frankel of 
             Florida, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. Webster of 
             Florida, Mr. Crist, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Costa, Mr. 
             Soto, and Mr. Payne):
       H.R. 5005. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior 
     to conduct a special resource study to determine the 
     suitability and feasibility of establishing the birthplace of 
     James Weldon Johnson in Jacksonville, Florida, as a unit of 
     the National Park System; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. MEADOWS (for himself, Mrs. McMorris Rodgers, Mr. 
             Lamborn, Mr. Messer, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Brat, 
             Mr. Rothfus, Mr. Banks of Indiana, Mr. Pearce, Mr. 
             Farenthold, Mr. Marshall, and Mr. Biggs):
       H.R. 5006. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide a child tax credit for pregnant moms; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. RUIZ:
       H.R. 5007. A bill to direct the Federal Communications 
     Commission to submit to Congress a report evaluating 
     broadband coverage in Indian country and on land held by a 
     Native Corporation and to complete a proceeding to address 
     the unserved areas identified in the report; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SCHRADER:
       H.R. 5008. A bill to amend title 36, United States Code, to 
     require Presidential Inaugural Committees to file 
     disbursement reports with the Federal Election Commission, to 
     prohibit such Committees from disbursing funds for purposes 
     unrelated to the inauguration of the President, to require 
     such Committees to donate any Committee funds which remain 
     available at the time the Committee terminates, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Jenkins 
             of West Virginia, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Meehan, Mr. 
             MacArthur, Mrs. Hartzler, and Mr. Latta):
       H.R. 5009. A bill to include information concerning a 
     patient's opioid addiction in certain medical records; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LATTA (for himself, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Austin 
             Scott of Georgia, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Turner, Mr. 
             Knight, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. Norcross, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
             Wenstrup, and Mr. Gallagher):
       H. Res. 737. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of March 2, 2018, as ``Gold Star Families 
     Remembrance Day''; to the Committee on Armed Services, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.

                          ____________________



