

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 23 (Tuesday, February 6, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 23 (Tuesday, February 6, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H901-H902]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire:
       H.R. 4938. A bill to address the opioid epidemic, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in addition to the Committees on the Judiciary, Ways and 
     Means, Education and the Workforce, and the Budget, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. TIPTON:
       H.R. 4939. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     provide for the membership of the Commandant of the Coast 
     Guard on the Joint Chiefs of Staff; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services.
           By Mr. VELA (for himself, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, 
             Mr. Payne, Ms. Barragan, Mrs. Demings, Mr. Correa, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, and Miss Rice of New York):
       H.R. 4940. A bill to increase the number of U.S. Customs 
     and Border Protection officers and support staff, to require 
     reports that identify staffing, infrastructure, and equipment 
     needed to enhance security at ports of entry, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Ways and Means, and 
     Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. MARINO:
       H.R. 4941. A bill to amend the Animal Welfare Act to 
     protect common household pets from harmful confinement; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. MITCHELL (for himself, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, and Mr. 
             Smucker):
       H.R. 4942. A bill to require the Secretary of Labor to 
     award grants for promoting industry or sector partnerships to 
     encourage industry growth and competitiveness and to improve 
     worker training, retention, and advancement; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Jeffries, 
             Mr. Issa, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Marino, Mr. Rutherford, 
             and Mrs. Demings):
       H.R. 4943. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     improve law enforcement access to data stored across borders, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Rules, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for herself, Ms. 
             Jayapal, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Meng, Ms. Eshoo, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mr. Correa, Mr. Takano, Ms. Hanabusa, Ms. 
             Roybal-Allard, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Ms. Matsui, Mr. 
             Krishnamoorthi, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Norton, Ms. Wilson 
             of Florida, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, 
             Ms. Barragan, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Soto, 
             Mr. Nadler, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Gomez, 
             Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Cummings, Ms. Moore, 
             Mr. Khanna, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. 
             Schiff, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mrs. Watson Coleman, 
             Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Lee, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, Ms. Schakowsky, and Mr. Veasey):
       H.R. 4944. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to promote family unity, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. BUSTOS (for herself and Mr. LaMalfa):
       H.R. 4945. A bill to amend the Department of Agriculture 
     Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish a Rural Health 
     Liaison; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. CORREA (for himself, Mr. Cook, Mr. DeSaulnier, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Schiff, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. 
             Cardenas, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Peters, Mr. 
             Issa, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. 
             Roybal-Allard, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Takano, Mr. 
             McNerney, Mr. Vargas, Mrs. Mimi Walters of 
             California, Mr. Rohrabacher, Mr. Royce of California, 
             Mr. McClintock, Mr. Valadao, Mr. Calvert, Ms. 
             Sanchez, Mrs. Torres, Mr. Gomez, Mr. Costa, Ms. Bass, 
             Mr. Knight, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. Panetta, 
             Mr. Khanna, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Ms. Barragan, 
             Ms. Judy Chu of California, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Aguilar, 
             Mr. Bera, Mr. Denham, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. 
             Hunter, Ms. Lee, Mr. Nunes, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Sherman, 
             Ms. Speier, and Ms. Maxine Waters of California):
       H.R. 4946. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 1075 North Tustin Street in 
     Orange, California, as the ``Specialist Trevor A. Win'E Post 
     Office''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Ms. ESTY of Connecticut (for herself, Mr. Katko, Mr. 
             Faso, and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 4947. A bill to improve infrastructure in small towns 
     and rural areas; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. FOSTER (for himself and Mr. Massie):
       H.R. 4948. A bill to provide a Federal charter to the Fab 
     Foundation for the National Fab Lab Network, a national 
     network of local digital fabrication facilities providing 
     universal access to advanced manufacturing tools for learning 
     skills, developing inventions, creating businesses, and 
     producing personalized products, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. GABBARD (for herself, Mr. Young of Alaska, and 
             Ms. Hanabusa):
       H.R. 4949. A bill to direct the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Health 
     and Human Services, and the Director of the Federal 
     Communications Commission to take certain actions regarding 
     civil defense related to the growing ballistic missile threat 
     and the communications errors in Hawaii on January 13, 2018, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services, 
     and in addition to the Committees on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE (for herself, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, Ms. Norton, and Mr. Cohen):
       H.R. 4950. A bill to amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 
     1961 to require the annual human rights reports to include 
     information on instances of sexual assault in refugee camps, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. ISSA (for himself, Mr. Renacci, Mr. DesJarlais, 
             and Ms. Norton):
       H.R. 4951. A bill to require the Secretary of the Interior 
     and the Secretary of Agriculture to enter into agreements 
     with State and local governments to provide for the continued 
     operation of public land, open air monuments and memorials, 
     units of the National Park System, units of the National 
     Wildlife Refuge System, and units of the National Forest 
     System during a lapse in appropriations, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for himself and Mr. 
             Kind):
       H.R. 4952. A bill to direct the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to conduct a study and submit a report on the 
     effects of the inclusion of quality increases in the 
     determination of blended benchmark amounts under part C of 
     the Medicare program; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LANCE (for himself, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, Mr. Welch,

[[Page H902]]

             Mr. Guthrie, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Walberg, and Ms. Clarke 
             of New York):
       H.R. 4953. A bill to facilitate a national pipeline of 
     spectrum for commercial use, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. MURPHY of Florida (for herself, Mr. Bergman, 
             Ms. Sinema, and Mr. Curbelo of Florida):
       H.R. 4954. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     require members of the Armed Forces to receive additional 
     training under the Transition Assistance Program, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. NEAL:
       H.R. 4955. A bill to provide certain protections from civil 
     liability with respect to the emergency administration of 
     opioid overdose drugs; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. NORTON (for herself and Mr. Sarbanes):
       H.R. 4956. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to provide for adjustment of status for aliens who are 
     nationals of El Salvador and were granted or eligible for 
     temporary protected status, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN:
       H. Con. Res. 104. Concurrent resolution providing for a 
     correction in the enrollment of H.R. 1892; considered and 
     agreed to.
           By Mr. ISSA (for himself and Mrs. Dingell):
       H. Con. Res. 105. Concurrent resolution commemorating the 
     100th anniversary of women serving in the United States 
     Marine Corps; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico:
       H. Res. 726. A resolution raising a question of the 
     privileges of the House.

                          ____________________



