

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 29 (Wednesday, February 14, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 29 (Wednesday, February 14, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1171-H1172]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




            HONORING WORLD WAR II VETERAN WILLIAM JOHN TOMKA

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the Speaker's announced policy of 
January 3, 2017, the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Rutherford) is 
recognized for 60 minutes as the designee of the majority leader.
  Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor World War II 
veteran William John Tomka, with whom I had the recent pleasure of 
joining to celebrate his 100th birthday on January 27, 2018.
  Born in Dover, New Jersey, to immigrant parents, William spent his 
formative years in New Jersey developing a love of music. This resulted 
in him becoming a music teacher until he was drafted into the United 
States Army on July 11, 1941.
  He left a successful job teaching in New Jersey to defend our great 
Nation. After completing his radio operations training at Fort Dix and 
Fort Bragg, he was deployed to Iceland as part of the 50th Signal 
Battalion in which he served as a technical sergeant leading a group of 
eight men who were also trained radio operators.
  His team was responsible for code, receiving and transmitting from 
the field, as well as in command vehicles. This group was part of the 
first American Army personnel to be sent in the European Theater of 
Operations.
  After 22 months in Iceland, he was sent to England to be a part of 
the invasion force of France on D-day. He was dropped onto Utah Beach 
on June 6, 1944, and bravely fought through the entire campaign of 
Europe, including the American bombardment of the German forces at 
Saint-Lo. He and his fellow soldiers later proceeded to serve at the 
Battle of the Bulge.
  When recounting his most memorable times in the Army, Mr. Tomka will 
tell you about his time in Europe after D-day. He told me about his 
time in France, where he witnessed American fighter pilots bomb the 
German forces, and of his time served in joint force with the Russians 
at the river of Elbe.
  Mr. Tomka was discharged after 3\1/2\ years of foreign duty on June 
22, 1945. After his years of service, Mr. Tomka went back to his 
passion of teaching music. He started an instrumental music program in 
the Ridgefield school system of New Jersey. During his years of music 
education, Mr. Tomka obtained his master's degree from NYU in 
supervision and administration.

[[Page H1172]]

  While he was at NYU, he also played violin in the orchestra. Even at 
100 years old, his talents are still impressive. At his recent birthday 
celebration, Mr. Tomka expertly played the clarinet, violin, piano, and 
sang for all of his family and friends.
  I salute Mr. William John Tomka on his years of faithful service to 
our country and to the public school system. He exemplified qualities 
of a true American hero. I, on behalf of a grateful nation, admire his 
service and sacrifice.


    30th Anniversary of the David A. Stein Jewish Community Alliance

  Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the 
hardworking men and women of the David A. Stein Jewish Community 
Alliance on the celebration of their 30th anniversary of enriching the 
lives of those with a variety of needs.
  The JCA is a pillar in our Jacksonville community. The Jewish 
Community Alliance is a nonprofit community center affiliated with the 
Jacksonville Jewish Federation, the United Way of Northeast Florida, 
and the Jewish Community Centers of North America. Its focus is to 
enhance the quality of life for families and individuals of all ages, 
religions, races, financial means, and physical and mental abilities.
  To this end, the JCA has impacted tens of thousands of citizens in 
our community. Situated on the Ed Parker Jewish Community Campus, the 
JCA welcomes preschool-aged children to get a good start in life and 
embraces teens and adults to join classes on health, heritage, and a 
variety of subjects.

  The JCA is a spirit of intergenerational sharing of values and ideas. 
The afterschool and school-closed day programs give peace of mind to 
working parents, both married and single. Seniors and adults with 
special needs are offered opportunities to reach their potential with 
dignity and tradition.
  The JCA facility offers swimming, theater, and camp programs, fitness 
and exercise classes, sports teams, art, and academic classes to all 
members and welcomes all for membership. The JCA offers an array of 
creative and innovative classes, programs, and events to inspire and 
benefit its participants.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask Members of the House to join me in acknowledging 
the 30th anniversary of the Jewish Community Alliance and its 
commitment to our community.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



