

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 25 (Thursday, February 8, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 25 (Thursday, February 8, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1074-H1075]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

             [Omitted from the Record of February 7, 2018]

           By Mrs. DINGELL:
       H.R. 4964. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to require that children's cosmetics containing 
     talc include an appropriate warning unless the cosmetics are 
     demonstrated to be asbestos-free, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.

                      [Filed on February 8, 2018]

           By Mr. BARLETTA:
       H.R. 4977. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow a credit for certain facilities that remediate 
     and reclaim coal refuse sites in the United States by 
     producing electricity from coal refuse; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. BLACK (for herself and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 4978. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to permit high deductible health plans to provide 
     chronic disease prevention services to plan enrollees prior 
     to satisfying their plan deductible; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. REICHERT (for himself, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Brady 
             of Texas, Mr. Neal, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Curbelo of 
             Florida, Mr. Smith of Nebraska, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania, and Mr. Meehan):
       H.R. 4979. A bill to extend the Generalized System of 
     Preferences and to make technical changes to the competitive 
     need limitations provision of the program; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. VEASEY (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. 
             Plaskett, Ms. Lee, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Ms. Norton, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Mr. Polis, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. Sires, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Huffman, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Raskin, and Mr. Gene Green 
             of Texas):
       H.R. 4980. A bill to prohibit the use of funds for certain 
     parades; to the Committee on Armed Services, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. NORMAN (for himself and Mr. Khanna):
       H.R. 4981. A bill to terminate certain lifetime benefits 
     provided to former Members of Congress, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on House Administration, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and Rules, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. SCHNEIDER:
       H.R. 4982. A bill to limit the authority of the President 
     to carry out large-scale military parades; to the Committee 
     on Armed Services.
           By Mr. MEADOWS:
       H.R. 4983. A bill to amend part E of title IV of the Social 
     Security Act to require States to provide for the placement 
     of a foster child in a cottage home, and to make a child so 
     placed eligible for foster care maintenance payments; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. ADAMS (for herself, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, 
             Mr. Kelly of Mississippi, and Mr. Luetkemeyer):
       H.R. 4984. A bill to amend the National Agricultural 
     Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 to allow 
     for 1890 institutions to carry over an increased percentage 
     of extension funding received during the previous fiscal 
     year; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. BABIN (for himself, Mr. Young of Alaska, Mr. 
             Gosar, and Mr. LaMalfa):
       H.R. 4985. A bill to restore an opportunity for tribal 
     economic development on terms that are equal and fair, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN:
       H.R. 4986. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 
     to reauthorize appropriations for the Federal Communications 
     Commission, to provide for certain procedural changes to the 
     rules of the Commission to maximize opportunities for public 
     participation and efficient decisionmaking, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and Oversight and Government Reform, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BURGESS (for himself, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, 
             Mr. Roskam, and Mr. Levin):
       H.R. 4987. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for technical amendments to the 
     Merit-based Incentive Payment System under Medicare; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mrs. BUSTOS (for herself and Mr. Bost):
       H.R. 4988. A bill to establish nonrecourse conservation 
     assistance loans for loan commodities produced on certain 
     farms, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.
           By Mr. CASTRO of Texas (for himself and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 4989. A bill to require the Department of State to 
     establish a policy regarding the use of location-tracking 
     consumer devices by employees at diplomatic and consular 
     facilities, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mrs. DINGELL:
       H.R. 4990. A bill to amend part E of title IV of the Social 
     Security Act to require States to follow certain procedures 
     in placing a child who has been removed from the custody of 
     his or her parents; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. DONOVAN (for himself, Miss Rice of New York, and 
             Mr. King of New York):
       H.R. 4991. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to establish the National Urban Security Technology 
     Laboratory, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security.
           By Ms. ESTY of Connecticut (for herself and Mr. Lance):
       H.R. 4992. A bill to amend the Clean Air Act to direct 
     permitting authorities to notify municipalities within 30 
     miles of a source of certain permit applications and proposed 
     permits, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for himself and Mr. 
             Higgins of New York):
       H.R. 4993. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to authorize the designation of additional taxable 
     vaccines; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. PERRY:
       H.R. 4994. A bill to repeal section 115 of the Clean Air 
     Act; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi (for himself, Mr. Payne, 
             Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Jackson Lee, Miss Rice of 
             New York, Mrs. Demings, Mr. Keating, Mr. Langevin, 
             Mr. Correa, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Richmond, and Mr. 
             Vela):
       H.R. 4995. A bill to direct the Administrator of the 
     Federal Emergency Management Agency to establish a contractor 
     review process with respect to certain contracts, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. ZELDIN:
       H.R. 4996. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to provide that individuals who naturalized under title 
     III of that Act, who are affiliated with a criminal gang, are 
     subject to revocation of citizenship, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.

[[Page H1075]]

  

           By Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania (for himself, Mr. Evans, 
             Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Meehan, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Mr. Norcross, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Mr. Dent, Mr. Smucker, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Mr. MacArthur, Mr. LoBiondo, and Mr. 
             Costello of Pennsylvania):
       H. Res. 735. A resolution congratulating the Philadelphia 
     Eagles on their victory in Super Bowl LII; to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform.

                          ____________________



