

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 28 (Tuesday, February 13, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 28 (Tuesday, February 13, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Page S907]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mrs. Murray, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Markey, Mrs. 
             Feinstein, Mr. Booker, Ms. Warren, Mr. Udall, Ms. 
             Baldwin, Ms. Duckworth, Ms. Smith, Mrs. Gillibrand, 
             Ms. Harris, Mr. Heinrich, and Mr. Durbin):
       S. 2417. A bill to amend the Truth in Lending Act to 
     address certain issues relating to the extension of consumer 
     credit, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, 
     Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Ms. HASSAN (for herself and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 2418. A bill to direct the Federal Communications 
     Commission to promulgate regulations that establish a 
     national standard for determining whether mobile and 
     broadband services available in rural areas are reasonably 
     comparable to those services provided in urban areas; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. COONS (for himself and Mr. Gardner):
       S. 2419. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to improve 
     the technical and business assistance services under the SBIR 
     and STTR programs; to the Committee on Small Business and 
     Entrepreneurship.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mrs. Ernst, Mrs. Fischer, 
             Mr. Lankford, Mr. Inhofe, and Mr. Blunt):
       S. 2420. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide a child tax credit for pregnant moms; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. FISCHER (for herself, Mr. Donnelly, Mr. 
             Barrasso, Mr. Rounds, Mr. Roberts, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. 
             Coons, Mr. Carper, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Isakson, Mr. 
             Warner, Mrs. Ernst, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. 
             Manchin, Mr. Moran, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Wicker, Ms. 
             Smith, Mr. Hoeven, Mr. Casey, and Mr. Bennet):
       S. 2421. A bill to amend the Comprehensive Environmental 
     Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 to provide 
     an exemption from certain notice requirements and penalties 
     for releases of hazardous substances from animal waste at 
     farms; to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself and Mr. Markey):
       S. 2422. A bill to require a study on the health impacts of 
     air traffic noise and pollution; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Durbin, Mr. 
             Sanders, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Coons, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Ms. Hirono, Ms. Warren, Mr. Booker, Ms. 
             Harris, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Merkley, Mrs. Gillibrand, and 
             Mr. Markey):
       S. 2423. A bill to reinstate Federal Pell Grant eligibility 
     for individuals incarcerated in Federal and State penal 
     institutions, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions .
           By Mr. HATCH:
       S. 2424. A bill to require the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     convey certain Federal land to facilitate scientific research 
     supporting Federal space and defense programs; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.

                          ____________________



