

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 29 (Wednesday, February 14, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 29 (Wednesday, February 14, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1131]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          RECOGNIZING BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS OF BUCKS COUNTY

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Big 
Brothers Big Sisters of Bucks County, which has served tens of 
thousands of kids in our community since its founding in 1963.
  The Bucks County chapter is unique. Since 2015, they have piloted an 
expansion of their mentorship program, which pairs elementary schools 
with high school mentors to include children with autism spectrum 
disorder. This tailored program caters to the students' unique needs, 
providing these children with two specially trained high school mentors 
rather than one to ensure a greater level of stability.
  The program has been so successful that Big Brothers Big Sisters of 
Bucks County is now looking to expand it. Their community mentorship 
program matches at-risk youth ages 6 to 16 with volunteer mentors. This 
program provides caring adult role models who consistently spend time 
with their ``littles'' to help them make good choices so that they may 
become productive, responsible, and engaged young adults.
  I want to highlight the story of John Wilson, the board president and 
an individual who himself benefited from Big Brothers Big Sisters. 
John's father passed away when he was 5. He was matched with a big 
brother when he was 12 at a point when, in his own words, he was at a 
significant risk of heading in the wrong direction. He credits his 
mentor with having a profound impact on his life, without whom his life 
could have turned out very differently, in John's words.
  John graduated from college, enjoyed a successful career, and now 
gives back as president of the board. John is still in contact with his 
big brother and working hard to pay back the investment made in him 
years ago. To all those involved in Big Brothers Big Sisters, including 
John, we thank you for your work in helping our youth in Bucks County.


                        Save Stone Meadows Farm

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, growing up in Middletown Township in 
Bucks County, Pennsylvania, and as a current Middletown Township 
resident now representing my hometown in Congress, I have seen my 
community change throughout the years. The one constant, however, has 
always been the presence of Stone Meadows Farm, one of the last 
remaining active agricultural lands in our township. The 168-acre farm 
has a rich history that connects the present to the past; and, as 
development continues throughout our region, Stone Meadows Farm reminds 
residents why we chose to live in beautiful Middletown Township, 
Pennsylvania. I firmly believe that this is something worth preserving.
  In Bucks County, we are fortunate that our local and county leaders 
continue to make concerted efforts to preserve our open spaces, and 
here in Congress I am working to support preservation and land 
conservation efforts nationwide. I stand ready to work with any 
government official and our citizens, like members of the Save Stone 
Meadow Farm movement, who share this goal to preserve our quality of 
life and the character of our community.
  Whether in our hometown or across our great Nation, we must stand 
ready to preserve and protect our open spaces from overdevelopment.

                          ____________________



