

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 28 (Tuesday, February 13, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 28 (Tuesday, February 13, 2018)]
[House]
[Page H1103]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 FRAMEWORK FOR REBUILDING INFRASTRUCTURE IN AMERICA--MESSAGE FROM THE 
          PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 115-95)

  The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before the House the following message 
from the President of the United States; which was read and, together 
with the accompanying papers, referred to the Committee on Agriculture; 
Committee on Education and the Workforce; Committee on Energy and 
Commerce; Committee on the Judiciary; Committee on Natural Resources; 
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform; Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure; Committee on Veterans' Affairs; and 
Committee on Ways and Means, and ordered to be printed:

To the Congress of the United States:
  I have enclosed with this message my Administration's framework for 
rebuilding infrastructure in America. Our Nation's infrastructure is in 
an unacceptable state of disrepair, which damages our country's 
competitiveness and our citizens' quality of life. For too long, 
lawmakers have invested in infrastructure inefficiently, ignored 
critical needs, and allowed it to deteriorate. As a result, the United 
States has fallen further and further behind other countries. It is 
time to give Americans the working, modern infrastructure they deserve.
  To help build a better future for all Americans, I ask the Congress 
to act soon on an infrastructure bill that will: stimulate at least 
$1.5 trillion in new investment over the next 10 years, shorten the 
process for approving projects to 2 years or less, address unmet rural 
infrastructure needs, empower State and local authorities, and train 
the American workforce of the future.
  To develop the infrastructure framework I am transmitting today, my 
Administration engaged with Governors, mayors, Federal agencies, State 
and local agencies, Members of Congress, industry, and most 
importantly, the American people who depend on upgraded infrastructure. 
The product of these efforts is a roadmap for the Congress to draft and 
pass the most comprehensive infrastructure bill in our Nation's 
history. My Administration's plan addresses more than traditional 
infrastructure--like roads, bridges, and airports--but addresses other 
needs like drinking and wastewater systems, waterways, water resources, 
energy, rural infrastructure, public lands, veterans' hospitals, and 
Brownfield and Superfund sites. The reforms set forth in my plan will 
strengthen the economy, make our country more competitive, reduce the 
costs of goods and services for American families, and enable Americans 
to build their lives on top of the best infrastructure in the world.
  My Administration is committed to working with the Congress to enact 
a law that will enable America's builders to construct new, modern, and 
efficient infrastructure throughout our beautiful land.
                                                     Donald J. Trump.  
The White House, February 12, 2018.

                          ____________________



