

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 24 (Wednesday, February 7, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 24 (Wednesday, February 7, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S704-S705]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 294

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 294, a bill to amend the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to clarify the Food and Drug 
Administration's jurisdiction over certain tobacco products, and to 
protect jobs and small businesses involved in the sale, manufacturing 
and distribution of traditional and premium cigars.


                                 S. 339

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Jones) was added as a cosponsor of S. 339, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to repeal the requirement for reduction of 
survivor annuities under the Survivor Benefit Plan by veterans' 
dependency and indemnity compensation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 732

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 732, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow a refundable tax 
credit against income tax for the purchase of qualified access 
technology for the blind.


                                 S. 819

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 819, a bill to amend the 
Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to provide more effective remedies to 
victims of discrimination in the payment of wages on the basis of sex, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1027

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker), the Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters) and 
the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Smith) were added as cosponsors of S. 
1027, a bill to extend the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-
Determination Act of 2000.


                                S. 1161

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1161, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to eliminate copayments by the 
Department of Veterans Affairs for medicines relating to preventative 
health services, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1352

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1352, a bill to establish 
a tax credit for on-site apprenticeship programs, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1361

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1361, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to allow physician assistants, 
nurse practitioners, and clinical nurse specialists to supervise 
cardiac, intensive cardiac, and pulmonary rehabilitation programs.


                                S. 1652

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Smith) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1652, a bill to amend the 
Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 and the Portal-to-Portal Act of 1947 
to prevent wage theft and assist in the recovery of stolen wages, to 
authorize the Secretary of Labor to administer grants to prevent wage 
and hour violations, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1808

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut

[[Page S705]]

(Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1808, a bill to extend 
temporarily the Federal Perkins Loan program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1917

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons), the Senator 
from Kansas (Mr. Roberts), the Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters), the 
Senator from Iowa (Mrs. Ernst) and the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
Casey) were added as cosponsors of S. 1917, a bill to reform sentencing 
laws and correctional institutions, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2174

  At the request of Mr. Young, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Warner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2174, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to conduct a study on the Veterans Crisis 
Line.


                                S. 2214

  At the request of Mr. Enzi, the names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Barrasso) and the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Roberts) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2214, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to provide for the recognition of attending physician 
assistants as attending physicians to serve hospice patients, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 2295

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2295, a bill to increase the 
rates of pay under the General Schedule and other statutory pay systems 
and for prevailing rate employees by 3.0 percent, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 2335

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 2335, a bill to authorize the 
Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture to issue 
permits for recreation services on lands managed by Federal agencies, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 2360

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) and the Senator from West Virginia (Mr. 
Manchin) were added as cosponsors of S. 2360, a bill to provide for the 
minimum size of crews of freight trains, and for other purposes.


                                S. 2364

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the names of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran), the Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. 
Capito), the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) and the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) were added as cosponsors of S. 2364, a bill to 
amend the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 2014 to 
provide to State infrastructure financing authorities additional 
opportunities to receive loans under that Act to support drinking water 
and clean water State revolving funds to deliver water infrastructure 
to communities across the United States, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



