

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 29 (Wednesday, February 14, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 29 (Wednesday, February 14, 2018)]
[House]
[Pages H1132-H1133]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF SARAH JANECEK

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Fitzpatrick). The Chair recognizes the 
gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. Emmer) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to remember the life of Sarah 
Janecek, a friend who passed away unexpectedly and far too soon.
  Sarah was one of Minnesota's best political commentators. As a 
strategist, she understood all sides of the issues and brought humor 
everywhere she went.
  Over the course of her career, Sarah built relationships across the 
political spectrum. She was known for lending her honesty and wit to 
every encounter. She commanded respect by becoming a source of 
political knowledge through her writing, newsletters, and commentary, 
and she was sought after by local and national media to provide her 
insights on Minnesota's unusual politics.
  Our community has suffered a great loss. Sarah's bright spirit will, 
indeed, be missed. My deepest condolences go out to her family and 
loved ones. Sarah had a great heart, and we will all miss her.


        Honoring the Legacy of Wright County Sheriff Joe Hagerty

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the legacy of Wright 
County Sheriff Joe Hagerty. Joe retires after 33 honorable years of 
service to the third largest sheriff's office in the State of 
Minnesota. He has a reputation for honesty and has become someone that 
we all trust.
  Our community has been honored to have a public servant with Joe's 
level of integrity and accountability. His respect for the rule of law 
and compassion for his fellow citizens made him an exceptional sheriff.
  During his time in office, Joe fostered a relationship with 
neighboring counties to share a crime lab, which helped solve cases and 
bring justice. Every single day, Joe put the safety of Minnesotans 
above all else.
  Sheriff Hagerty, I speak on behalf of all Minnesotans when I say: 
Thank you. We wish you a happy and healthy and well-deserved 
retirement.


              Recognizing Carver County Sheriff Jim Olson

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and thank Carver 
County Sheriff Jim Olson for his incredible 31 years of service to the 
people of Minnesota. In Jim's three-plus decades on the force, Sheriff 
Olson oversaw some of Carver County's most exciting and turbulent 
times.
  When the Ryder Cup was held in Chaska, Minnesota, in 2016, Jim 
managed safety operations and maintained a family-friendly environment 
for everyone. After the passing of Minnesota legend Prince, Jim ensured 
that Paisley Park in Carver County remained a safe place for Prince's 
fans to mourn.
  Jim has dedicated his life to Carver County, serving as an instructor 
of the Carver County Citizens Academy to inform the public about the 
services and role of the sheriff's office. Impressively, he also serves 
as a member of the Carver County Mental Health Consortium to spread 
awareness of mental health resources. He has been a faithful, selfless 
servant leader to the citizens of Carver County.
  Sheriff Olson, thank you for your service. We wish you the best in 
your retirement.


             Recognizing Outstanding Businessman Butch Ames

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of one of 
Minnesota's outstanding businessmen, Butch Ames. As chief executive 
officer and cofounder of Ames Construction, a family-owned and 
privately held construction company headquartered in Minnesota, Butch 
has built and grown the industry nationwide.
  Ames Construction is known for heavy civil, transportation, and 
mining construction. With Butch at the helm, the company continues to 
grow and expand its reach all across the Nation. They have completed 
notable projects, such as Denver's International Airport, the I-15 
corridor reconstruction project in Salt Lake City, the Loop 202 in 
Phoenix, and the St. Croix River Crossing in Minnesota.
  Butch holds his company to a standard of professionalism and safety 
that is unparalleled, serving this Nation and his industry proudly.
  Congratulations, Butch.


                       Recognizing Torah Academy

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Torah Academy for 
entering their 73rd year educating Jewish children in Minnesota. From 
the

[[Page H1133]]

beginning and to this day, Torah Academy maintains a focus on 
strengthening the mind and spirit of our future leaders.
  Because of educators like Dean and Rabbi Pinchus Idstein and 
Principal Matthew Cleary, Torah Academy offers a quality education on 
firm spiritual grounding. Pillars of our strong local community like 
Dr. Joey Greenberg and his wife, Mrs. Marina Greenberg, spread kindness 
and generosity to make certain Torah can execute its mission and goals.

  A special thank-you to Citizens Independent Bank, that also dedicates 
their support.
  Torah students succeed because their community supports them, and 
they are guaranteed to make their corner of the world a better place.
  Congratulations to Torah Academy for a successful 73 years. We wish 
you many more.

                          ____________________



