

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 28 (Tuesday, February 13, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 28 (Tuesday, February 13, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S905-S907]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS

  The following petitions and memorials were laid before the Senate and 
were referred or ordered to lie on the table as indicated:

       POM-167. A resolution adopted by the House of 
     Representatives of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 
     memorializing its support of the Department of Energy's 
     proposed Grid Resiliency Pricing Rule; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.

                        House Resolution No. 576

       Whereas, Electric generation power plants in this 
     Commonwealth that participate in the wholesale electric 
     markets strengthen competition and enhance the resilience and 
     reliability of the bulk power and transmission systems and 
     are vital to the public interest; and
       Whereas, The nation's and this Commonwealth's economy, 
     environment and security depend on a reliable, resilient 
     electric grid powered by an ``all of the above'' mix of 
     energy generation resources, including traditional baseload 
     generation that is produced from long-term fuel sources 
     located onsite; and
       Whereas, The North American Electric Reliability 
     Corporation, whose mission is to assure the reliability and 
     security of North America's bulk power system, in a May 2017 
     letter to United States Secretary of Energy Rick Perry warned 
     that ``premature retirements of fuel-secure baseload 
     generating stations reduces resilience to fuel supply 
     disruptions''; and
       Whereas, The recent United States Department of Energy 
     Staff Report to the Secretary on Electricity Markets and 
     Reliability made clear that resiliency must be addressed by 
     the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and there is 
     an ``urgent need for clear definitions of reliability- and 
     resilience-enhancing attributes and should quickly establish 
     the market means to value or the regulatory means to provide 
     them''; and
       Whereas, The 2014 polar vortex exposed problems with the 
     resiliency of the electric grid when PJM Interconnection 
     struggled to meet demand for electricity because a 
     significant amount of generation was not available to run due 
     to weather-related outages; and
       Whereas, Pennsylvania's fuel-secure baseload generation 
     plants employ thousands of workers in high-paying jobs and 
     contribute significantly to State and local economies; and
       Whereas, Pennsylvania's coal industry, including coal power 
     plants, is a vital contributor to the State's economy, 
     providing support through direct, indirect and induced 
     impacts, including approximately 36,100 full and part-time 
     jobs, and $4.1 billion in total value added to the 
     Commonwealth's economy; and
       Whereas, Pennsylvania's nuclear industry, including nuclear 
     power plants, is a vital contributor to the State's economy, 
     providing support through direct, indirect and induced 
     impacts, including approximately 15,900 in-State full time 
     jobs and $2 billion to the Commonwealth's gross domestic 
     product, and $69 million in net State tax revenues annually; 
     and
       Whereas, In addition to the reliability, security, grid 
     resilience and economic attributes, Pennsylvania's fuel-
     secure baseload coal plants have made significant investments 
     to meet increased environmental standards, helping to improve 
     air and water quality in the Commonwealth; and
       Whereas, Pennsylvania is also home to unique fuel-secure 
     coal generation sources that use waste coal as a fuel-source, 
     employing 3,800 Pennsylvania residents and producing 1,500 
     megawatts of renewable energy, also helping to remove 
     approximately 200 million tons of refuse coal from mine 
     scarred land in Pennsylvania; and
       Whereas, In addition to the reliability, security, grid 
     resilience and economic attributes, Pennsylvania's fuel-
     secure baseload nuclear power plants also provide more than 
     93% of this Commonwealth's emissions-free electricity and are 
     the only emissions-free, predictable and reliable electric 
     generation source; and
       Whereas, Pennsylvania's diverse portfolio of fuel-secure 
     baseload generation resources are vital to our Commonwealth's 
     economic competitiveness, natural environment and public 
     health and safety; and
       Whereas, It is in the public interest that fuel-secure 
     baseload generation resources be properly compensated for 
     providing these positive attributes and under the current 
     design of the wholesale electric markets, prices are set-in a 
     manner that undervalues fuel-secure generation resources; and
       Whereas, The Secretary of Energy has proposed, for 
     consideration by FERC, a Grid Resilience Pricing Rule with 
     the goal of ensuring our nation's energy security: Therefore, 
     be it
       Resolved, That the House of Representatives of the 
     Commonwealth of Pennsylvania acknowledge the grid resilience 
     and reliability benefits that fuel-secure baseload 
     electricity generation resources provide to the residents, 
     businesses and economy of this Commonwealth and assert that 
     fuel-secure baseload generation resources receive proper 
     compensation for these positive attributes; and be it further
       Resolved, That the House of Representatives of the 
     Commonwealth of Pennsylvania agree with the goals of the 
     United States Department of Energy's proposed Grid Resiliency 
     Pricing Rule and urge the Federal Energy Regulatory 
     Commission to swiftly implement policies and approve tariff 
     provisions to ensure fuel-secure baseload electricity 
     generation resources receive proper compensation for all of 
     the positive attributes they provide our nation's and this 
     Commonwealth's electric system; and be it further
       Resolved, That the House of Representatives of the 
     Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, while expressing support for 
     FERC's swift action to ensure the positive attributes 
     provided by fuel-secure baseload generation resources receive 
     proper compensation in the wholesale market, will continue to 
     exercise the General Assembly's authority to make energy 
     policy consistent with the health, safety and welfare of our 
     residents; and be it further
       Resolved, That copies of this resolution be transmitted to 
     the President of the United States, United States Secretary 
     of Energy Rick Perry, FERC Commissioners, the presiding 
     officers of each house of Congress, each member of Congress 
     from Pennsylvania and the Board of Managers of PJM 
     Interconnection.
                                  ____

       POM-168. A concurrent resolution adopted by the Legislative 
     Assembly of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico requesting the 
     United States Congress and the United States Department of 
     the Interior to take necessary actions to provide for the 
     updating of the various topographic and hydrographic maps of 
     Puerto Rico; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.

                             S. Con. Res. 1


                          statement of motives

       The United States Geological Survey (hereinafter, the USGS) 
     is a scientific organization that provides unbiased 
     information on the health of our ecosystems and the 
     environment; the natural hazards that threaten us; the 
     natural resources, based on the impact of climate change and 
     land use; and the core science systems that allow us to 
     provide timely, relevant, and useful information.
       As the Nation's largest water, earth, and biological 
     science mapping agency, the USGS collects, monitors, 
     analyzes, and provides scientific knowledge on the condition 
     of the natural resources and any problems and issues related 
     thereto. The agency's diverse scientific knowledge enables it 
     to conduct large-scale multidisciplinary investigation, and 
     to provide unbiased scientific information to resource 
     managers, planners, and other customers. Likewise, the USGS 
     works in conjunction with other federal agencies as well as 
     the private sector through official memoranda of 
     understanding and memoranda of agreement in order to fulfill 
     the agency's scientific mission.
       The services offered by the USGS are of utmost importance 
     for Puerto Rico. The maps drawn by this entity are used for 
     multiple purposes, such as the identification of drainage 
     basins and the topography, land classification, localization, 
     and the location of water resources, properties, 
     delimitation, etc.
       As a matter of fact, the USGS's plans are part of the 
     requirements of the permit process carried out by the 
     government agencies of Puerto Rico. However, the 
     aforementioned maps are not up to date and most of them date 
     back to many decades. As expected, our Island and its 
     topography have been altered in the last forty (40) or fifty 
     (50) years; therefore, it is necessary to amend and update 
     said maps.
       The USGS keeps evolving and, in 2010, the agency made 
     changes to its structure in order to focus on or pay special 
     attention to

[[Page S906]]

     natural hazards. For such reason, the importance of the 
     accuracy in the records or documents that the agency provides 
     must be recognized. Regarding the USGS's maps of our Island, 
     it is essential that these maps are updated in order to avoid 
     issues in future developments and make an orderly land 
     planning feasible.
       In view of these circumstances and through this Concurrent 
     Resolution, this Legislative Assembly hereby requests the 
     United States Congress and the pertinent federal agencies to 
     provide for the updating of the various topographic and 
     hydrographic maps of our Island.
       Be it resolved by the Legislative Assembly of Puerto Rico:
       Section 1.--To request the United States Congress and the 
     United States Department of Interior to take the necessary 
     administrative and legislative actions in order to provide 
     for the updating of the various topographic and hydrographic 
     maps of our Island.
       Section 2.--It is hereby provided that a certification on 
     this Concurrent Resolution shall be issued immediately to be 
     delivered to the United States Congress and the United States 
     Department of the Interior.
       Section 3.--This Concurrent Resolution shall be translated 
     into English to be delivered as provided in Section 2.
       Section 4.--This Concurrent Resolution shall take effect 
     immediately after its approval.
                                  ____

       POM-169. A concurrent resolution adopted by the Legislative 
     Assembly of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico memorializing the 
     Assembly's opposition to H.R. 4202, the ``Parity in Animal 
     Cruelty Enforcement Act'', to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.

                            S. Con. Res. 28


                          STATEMENT OF MOTIVES

       The sport of cockfighting began in Puerto Rico in the 17th 
     century, when it was officially established on April 5, 1770 
     by the decree of Spanish governor Don Miguel de Muesas. At 
     that time, cockfighting was already a pastime in most 
     European countries. It was so popular that, during the reign 
     of King Henry VIII, cockfights were held in the Palace of 
     Whitehall, in the courtyards and interiors of churches, and 
     even in the British Parliament. Likewise, cockfights were so 
     popular in France that they adopted the gamecock as their 
     national symbol.
       In the United States, some presidents were fans of the 
     sport, among them, George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, 
     Andrew Jackson, and Abraham Lincoln who was known as ``Honest 
     Abe'' due to being a good pit judge. In fact, for many years, 
     it was acceptable and encouraged in the United States for a 
     gentleman to raise game fowls and be an expert at the sport.
       Over the years, cockfight bans began appearing all across 
     the Nation. In 1898, the sport was banned after Puerto Rico 
     became a territory of the United States of America, but 
     underground cockfights continued. However, as a result of the 
     fight put up by the third President of the Senate of Puerto 
     Rico, the Honorable Rafael Martinez-Nadal, who was a fan of 
     the sport and defended this Island tradition, then Governor 
     of Puerto Rico, Robert Gore, repealed the ban and promulgated 
     legislation which recognized cockfighting as a legitimate 
     sport in the Island.
       As a result of the above mentioned, the rule of law has 
     recognized that the sport of cockfighting has been part of 
     our culture and traditions. According to Jose S. Alegria, 
     ``the sport of cockfighting was a leveler that made a 
     gentleman out of all those who visited the pits, regardless 
     of their standing in society.'' This sport is known as the 
     ``gentlemen's sport,'' because the people who follow the same 
     keep their word during the competitions, without the need for 
     a contract or a similar document for such purposes.
       Although this sport has millions of fans in dozens of 
     countries around the world, Puerto Rico is still considered 
     ``the Mecca'' of cockfighting. The sport is so well 
     established that, unlike many other sports on the Island, 
     cockfighting does not require subsidies from the Government 
     of Puerto Rico. Moreover, it is estimated to generate over 
     twenty-seven thousand (27,000) direct and indirect jobs. 
     Likewise, this sport greatly impacts Puerto Rico's tourism 
     because we receive visitors from Mexico, the Dominican 
     Republic, and other countries who travel to the Island to 
     partake in the sport of cockfighting.
       Since its beginnings in Puerto Rico, the sport of 
     cockfighting has faced great challenges and has overcome 
     them. In 2007, the Federal Government passed the Animal 
     Welfare Act[sic], Pub. Law 110-22 which classified as a 
     felony the transport, sale, and purchase of tools and 
     paraphernalia relating to this activity, among other things. 
     At that time, the territories and places where cockfighting 
     was legal were excluded from the application of the Act.
       However, HR 4202 was introduced on November 1 of this year, 
     jeopardizing the continuity of this sport in Puerto Rico. On 
     this occasion, the express intent of the bill is to extend 
     the total ban against animal fighting set forth in the 
     ``Animal Welfare Act'' to the United States territories. 
     Moreover, it prohibits the purchase, sale, or transportation 
     of accessories to be used in cockfights, and even imposes 
     penalties of imprisonment. The congress members who 
     introduced this measure consider these types of fights animal 
     cruelty.
       It is worth noting that the sport of cockfighting in Puerto 
     Rico is well regulated. For instance, safety measures are 
     taken to guarantee that participating gamecocks wear the same 
     spurs and are of the same age, weight, and bet. Furthermore, 
     pit judges are empowered to stop the fight if they notice 
     either excessive punishment or that a gamecock is not fit to 
     continue fighting. Once the fight is over, both gamecocks are 
     examined by specialized staff and treated accordingly for 
     their prompt recovery. Hence, it is evident that our industry 
     has taken measures to ensure the protection of gamecocks.
       The enactment of HR 4202 shall threaten a century-old 
     practice that is deeply rooted in our culture, history, and 
     traditions. Moreover, said bill shall affect various 
     components of our economy that provide services related to 
     this sport, such as veterinarians, game fowl breeders, 
     agricultural stores, and trophies and awards manufacturers, 
     among others. For all of the foregoing, the Legislative 
     Assembly is compelled to firmly and unequivocally reject the 
     enactment of HR 4202, since it does not take into account the 
     adverse effect that such bill shall have on Puerto Rico's 
     economy and culture.
       Be it Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of Puerto Rico:
       Section 1.--To express the firm and unequivocal repudiation 
     and opposition of the Legislative Assembly of Puerto Rico to 
     HR 4202 of the United States House of Representatives that 
     seeks to apply the ``Animal Welfare Act'' to United States 
     territories and, consequently, prohibits cockfights in Puerto 
     Rico.
       Section 2.--A certified copy of this Concurrent Resolution 
     translated into English shall be delivered to the members of 
     the Senate and of the House of Representatives of the U.S. 
     Congress and to the President of the United States of 
     America.
       Section 3.--This Concurrent Resolution shall take effect 
     upon its approval.
                                  ____

       POM-170. A resolution adopted by the House of 
     Representatives of the State of Michigan urging the President 
     of the United States, the United States Congress, and other 
     agencies to continue efforts to prevent the introduction of 
     new aquatic species into the Great Lakes from the Chicago 
     area waterway system and to consider new research and 
     technologies; to the Committee on Environment and Public 
     Works.

                        House Resolution No. 21

       Whereas, The Great Lakes and the people, industries, and 
     communities that depend on them have suffered significant 
     harm from the introduction of aquatic invasive species. 
     Studies indicate that past invasions by sea lampreys, zebra 
     mussels, and other aquatic species likely cost the Great 
     Lakes region more than $100 million annually, with impacts on 
     fishing, power generation, manufacturing, municipal drinking 
     water systems, tourism, and recreation; and
       Whereas, The introduction of new aquatic invasive species 
     remains a real and imminent threat. Bighead and silver carp 
     are less than 50 miles from Lake Michigan. If they were to 
     invade the Great Lakes, they could displace native species, 
     disrupt fisheries, and injure boaters, negatively impacting 
     the $7 billion Great Lakes sport fishery and $5 billion Great 
     Lakes boating industry; and
       Whereas, There are ongoing efforts by the state of 
     Michigan, the other Great Lakes states, and the federal 
     government to prevent the introduction of bighead and silver 
     carp and other new aquatic invasive species. Among other 
     actions, the Michigan Department of Natural Resources employs 
     active enforcement, outreach, education, and monitoi ing for 
     bighead and silver carp while the Illinois Department of 
     Natural Resources, the United States Army Corps of Engineers, 
     the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, and other 
     federal agencies work to prevent bighead and silver carp from 
     reaching the Great Lakes; and
       Whereas, New research and technologies can enhance action 
     already being taken to prevent and control aquatic invasive 
     species. Ozone, carbon dioxide, hot water, sound, and 
     microparticles have all shown promise in preventing an 
     invasion and are being actively studied. Restoring native 
     fish populations may also help support a healthy fish 
     community and provide ecosystem resiliency to limit the 
     spread of aquatic invasive species: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved by the House of Representatives, That we encourage 
     the President and Congress of the United States, the Michigan 
     Department of Natural Resources, the United States Army Corps 
     of Engineers, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, 
     and other agencies to continue efforts to prevent the 
     introduction of new aquatic species, specifically bighead, 
     silver, and black carp, into the Great Lakes from the Chicago 
     Area Waterway System; and be it further
       Resolved, That we encourage the open consideration of new 
     research and the development of new technologies that may 
     provide innovative and effective methods to prevent and 
     control aquatic invasive species; and be it further
       Resolved, That copies of this resolution be transmitted to 
     the President of the United States, President of the United 
     States Senate, Speaker of the House of Representatives, 
     members of the Michigan congressional delegation, Director of 
     the Michigan Department of Natural Resources, the commanders 
     of the United States Army Corps of Engineers Great Lakes and 
     Ohio River Division and Mississippi Valley Division, the 
     Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, and 
     the other members of the Asian Carp Regional Coordinating 
     Committee.

[[Page S907]]

     
                                  ____
       POM-171. A resolution adopted by the Board of Supervisors 
     of Jackson County, Mississippi, supporting continued and 
     increased exploration and production of the Gulf of Mexico, 
     and urging the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management to finalize 
     a 2019-2024 National Outer Continental Shelf Program that 
     maintains and expands access to Gulf of Mexico energy 
     resources; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.

                          ____________________



