

Congressional Record, Volume 164 Issue 24 (Wednesday, February 7, 2018)

[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 24 (Wednesday, February 7, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S703-S704]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mrs. CAPITO (for herself, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Wicker, 
             and Mr. Menendez):
       S. 2387. A bill to provide better care and outcomes for 
     Americans living with Alzheimer's disease and related 
     dementias and their caregivers while accelerating progress 
     toward prevention strategies, disease modifying treatments, 
     and, ultimately, a cure; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. SANDERS (for himself, Ms. Harris, Mr. Markey, 
             and Mrs. Gillibrand):
       S. 2388. A bill to amend the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 to 
     provide for consultation with State, tribal, and local 
     governments, the consideration of State, tribal, and local 
     concerns, and the approval of post-shutdown decommissioning 
     activities reports by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission; to 
     the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself, Mr. Cotton, Mr. Cornyn, and 
             Mr. Cruz):
       S. 2389. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     require the impaneling of a new jury if a jury fails to 
     recommend by unanimous vote a sentence for conviction of a 
     crime punishable by death; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Ms. Smith, Mrs. 
             Feinstein, and Mr. Kaine):
       S. 2390. A bill to amend the Workforce Innovation and 
     Opportunity Act to support

[[Page S704]]

     community college and industry partnerships, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mr. Cornyn, and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 2391. A bill to prohibit the United States Government 
     from using or contracting with an entity that uses certain 
     telecommunications services or equipment, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. DAINES:
       S. 2392. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to authorize the Secretary of Homeland Security to designate 
     cybersecurity technologies that qualify for protection under 
     systems of risk and litigation management; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. COONS (for himself, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Tillis, Mr. 
             Corker, and Mr. Booker):
       S. 2393. A bill to amend title 17, United States Code, to 
     provide Federal protection to the digital audio transmission 
     of a sound recording fixed before February 15, 1972, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HATCH:
       S. 2394. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to ensure that public institutions of higher education 
     protect expressive activities in the outdoor areas on campus; 
     to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. Cassidy, and Mr. Reed):
       S. 2395. A bill to amend title 54, United States Code, to 
     authorize the provision of technical assistance under the 
     Preserve America Program and to direct the Secretary of the 
     Interior to enter into partnerships with communities adjacent 
     to units of the National Park System to leverage local 
     cultural heritage tourism assets; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Markey, 
             and Mrs. Gillibrand):
       S. 2396. A bill to amend the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 to 
     prohibit certain waivers and exemptions from emergency 
     preparedness and response and security regulations; to the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Ms. HASSAN:
       S. 2397. A bill to direct the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to establish a data framework to provide access for 
     appropriate personnel to law enforcement and other 
     information of the Department, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. HOEVEN:
       S. 2398. A bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to 
     provide that activities relating to the training and 
     readiness of the reserve components of the Armed Forces 
     during a lapse in appropriations shall constitute voluntary 
     services that may be accepted by the United States; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. MURPHY:
       S. 2399. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury to 
     mint coins in recognition of American innovation and 
     significant innovation and pioneering efforts of individuals 
     or groups from each of the 50 States, the District of 
     Columbia, and the United States territories, to promote the 
     importance of innovation in the United States, the District 
     of Columbia, and the United States territories, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
     Affairs.
           By Mrs. McCASKILL (for herself and Mr. Johnson):
       S. 2400. A bill to eliminate or modify certain audit 
     mandates of the Government Accountability Office; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY:
       S. 2401. A bill to amend the Congressional Accountability 
     Act of 1995 to reform the procedures provided under such Act 
     for the initiation, investigation, and resolution of claims 
     alleging that employing offices of the legislative branch 
     have violated the rights and protections provided to their 
     employees under such Act, including protections against 
     sexual harassment, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.

                          ____________________



