

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 115 (Monday, July 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 115 (Monday, July 10, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5391]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                               MEMORIALS

  Under clause 3 of rule XII, memorials were presented and referred as 
follows:

       80. The SPEAKER presented a memorial of the Legislature of 
     the State of Utah, relative to Senate Concurrent Resolution 
     8, encouraging the Federal Government to work with states to 
     plan and implement state-tailored, innovative Medicaid 
     programs that maximize states' flexibility and choice; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
       81. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of the State of 
     Utah, relative to House Joint Resolution 11, urging the 
     President of the United States to direct the United States 
     Department of State's Directorate of Defense Trade Controls 
     to cease labeling gunsmiths as manufacturers; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
       82. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of the State of 
     Utah, relative to House Joint Resolution 4, requesting that 
     Utah's congressional delegation submit federal legislation 
     amending federal block grant maintenance-of-effort 
     requirements; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
       83. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of the State of 
     Utah, relative to House Concurrent Resolution 7, expressing 
     support for Utah ranchers grazing livestock on Utah's public 
     lands; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
       84. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of the State of 
     Utah, relative to Senate Joint Resolution 11, urging that 
     sufficient funding be budgeted to complete the Bonneville 
     Unit of the Central Utah Project, as well as the entire 
     Central Utah Project; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
       85. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of the State of 
     Utah, relative to Senate Joint Resolution 5, supporting the 
     intended proposed Unites States House Bill to increase oil 
     royalties to the Utah Navajo Trust Fund; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
       86. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of the State of 
     Utah, relative to House Concurrent Resolution 6, supporting 
     the Re-Empowerment of the States Amendment; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
       87. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of the State of 
     Utah, relative to Senate Concurrent Resolution 6, affirming 
     the resolve of the state Legislature and the Governor to 
     protect the civil liberties, religious freedoms, and dignity 
     of all Americans, legal immigrants, and refugees seeking 
     protection against persecution; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
       88. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of the State of 
     Utah, relative to Senate Concurrent Resolution 2, urging 
     Congress to authorize states to regulate air ambulance 
     billing and collections of patient care costs; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
       89. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of the State of 
     Utah, relative to Senate Joint Resolution 13, urging the 
     United States Congress to authorize the creation of for 
     profit corporations by the several states; to the Committee 
     on Transportation and Infrastructure.
       90. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of the State of 
     Utah, relative to Senate Joint Resolution 3, urging Congress 
     to enact legislation permitting commercial drivers who are 18 
     to 21 years old to operate a commercial motor vehicle in a 
     contiguous state; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
       91. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of the State of 
     Maine, relative to House Petition 1120, urging the United 
     States Congress to reduce tariffs on lobster and seafood 
     products to keep Maine and domestic lobster and seafood 
     products competitive with Canadian lobster and seafood 
     products; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
       92. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of the State of 
     Utah, relative to House Joint Resolution 17, urging the 
     President of the United States and Congress to recognize 
     state authority and take action to restore power to the 
     states; jointly to the Committees on the Judiciary, Rules, 
     the Budget, and Oversight and Government Reform.

                          ____________________



