

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3553-S3554]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              RECOGNIZING BALLARD FAMILY DAIRY AND CHEESE

 Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, it is not every day that we take a 
moment to commemorate America's family-owned businesses that dedicate 
themselves to serving their local communities. I stand before you today 
to recognize a small business that emphasizes service, tradition, and 
family values. In my home State of Idaho, I have had the privilege of 
seeing firsthand Idahoans' dynamic use of natural resources. In our 
State, we continue to watch our agricultural small businesses advance 
and thrive. As chairman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and 
Entrepreneurship, it is my privilege to honor Ballard Family Dairy and 
Cheese of Gooding as the Senate Small Business of the Month for June 
2017. Ballard Family Dairy and Cheese has been a pioneer in Idaho's 
artisan cheesemaking community and is a remarkable example of 
entrepreneurial innovation.
  With just a few Jersey calves and a strong work ethic, the Ballard 
family started their dairy farm in 1995. Steve and Stacie Ballard, 
along with their children, Travis and Jessica, have worked hard to 
perfect cheeses that are distinctive and can only be cultivated in 
Idaho's unique climate. Their goal was to create a cheese that was 
specific to Idaho. Since then, the Ballard family has developed a 
successful in-house cheese facility that has produced numerous award-
winning specialty cheeses. The Ballard family gained the skills to 
produce artisan cheeses over years of hard work and trial and error. 
Their determination has allowed them to produce a fresh and original-
tasting commodity unique to Idaho.
  The Ballard family produces numerous types of hand-crafted cheeses, 
including cheddar, gouda, and cheese curds. Their facility produces 
approximately 3,000 pounds of cheese daily. Ballard Family Dairy and 
Cheese cows are individually cared for, which ensures that the calves 
are healthy and allows for the finest cheese. This well-executed cheese 
production system combined with small batch sizes enables the Ballard 
family to achieve the right consistencies for high-quality cheeses.
  Award-winning cheese is not the only noted accomplishments this 
family-run business has attained. In 2013, the Ballards' cheese 
facility was distinguished by the Innovation Center for U.S. Dairy as 
having ``Outstanding Achievement in Energy Efficiency.'' By adjusting 
their operational processes, their facility in Gooding has reduced 
their energy costs by about $23,000 annually.
  Beyond the Ballard family's thriving retail throughout the State, the 
Ballards also provide educational resources with their cheese 
purchasing information to Idahoans who are interested in learning about 
cheesemaking methods. Ballard Family Dairy and Cheese is an exceptional 
example of the entrepreneurial spirit of Idaho agriculture and of 
innovative energy practices from a family-owned business. I would like 
to extend my sincerest congratulations to the Ballard family and all of 
the employees of Ballard Family

[[Page S3554]]

Dairy and Cheese for being selected as the June 2017 Small Business of 
the Month. You make our great State proud, and I look forward to 
watching your continued growth and success.

                          ____________________



