

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 123 (Thursday, July 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 123 (Thursday, July 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4109]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          RECOGNIZING ROHINNI

 Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, today I would like to highlight the 
innovation, creativity, and entrepreneurial spirit that is found all 
across my home State of Idaho. Every month, I recognize a small 
business owner from one of our Idaho communities who embodies the 
spirit of innovation and determination in delivering a product or 
service that makes a substantial difference in the lives of many 
Americans. The small business that I would like to highlight this month 
has done just that by having an outsized influence on the 
microelectronic and lighting industries. As chairman of the Senate 
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, I am pleased to honor 
Rohinni as the Small Business of the Month for July 2017.
  The future is bright for this Coeur d'Alene based technology startup. 
Rohinni develops and manufactures LED lighting products. Described as 
``the World's Thinnest LED lighting,'' they allow light to be printed 
in any shape, on any surface, and for any need. The company's products 
have already been applied in many different fields, including 
transportation and consumer electronics.
  Cofounders Cody Peterson and Andy Huska first worked together 
creating advanced force-sensing capacitive membrane switches, 
touchpads, and touchscreens for the Pacinian Corporation, which Mr. 
Peterson founded. With their extensive experience and background in 
innovative technology products, they began with a new, clever concept: 
Using a thin slice of conductive material, they were able to disperse 
thousands of micro-LED diodes to create glowing surfaces. With this new 
direction, Rohinni was born in 2013. After further developing this 
innovative technique and obtaining 44 patents, including one for the 
world's thinnest keyboard, Cody and Andy mastered micro-LED placement. 
With the help of some crucial venture capital investments 2 years 
later, the cofounders turned their idea into a successful company and 
have even expanded with a branch office in Austin, TX. Their new 
technology has been successfully used in many products, including 
fabric, television displays, mobile devices, and automotive displays.
  Rohinni's creative efforts have been recognized by several business 
and trade publications. As one of the founders of the Semiconductor 
Caucus, I recognize the importance that these emerging technologies 
have on the advancement of our Nation's scientific progress, as we 
continue to move towards manufacturing products that are simpler in 
design, more efficient, lighter in weight, and smaller in size. The 
innovation displayed by companies like Rohinni help to preserve our 
global competitive edge in the electronic, semiconductor, and memory 
industries.
  It is my honor to recognize Cody Peterson and Andy Huska and the 
employees of Rohinni who have made lasting contributions to the 
electronics industry. You make our State proud, and I look forward to 
watching your continued growth and success.

                          ____________________



