

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3146-S3147]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 203

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Mr. Johnson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 203, a bill to reaffirm 
that the Environmental Protection Agency may not regulate vehicles used 
solely for competition, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 251

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 251, a bill to repeal 
the Independent Payment Advisory Board in order to ensure that it 
cannot be used to undermine the Medicare entitlement for beneficiaries.


                                 S. 253

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 253, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to repeal the Medicare outpatient rehabilitation 
therapy caps.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 322, a bill to protect 
victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating 
violence from emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts of 
violence or threats of violence against their pets.


                                 S. 428

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 428, a bill to 
amend titles XIX and XXI of the Social Security Act to authorize States 
to provide coordinated care to children with complex medical conditions 
through enhanced pediatric health homes, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill to amend title XVIII 
of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under Medicare for 
colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether therapeutic 
intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 540, a bill to limit the 
authority of States to tax certain income of employees for employment 
duties performed in other States.


                                 S. 660

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 660, a bill to amend the 
Higher Education Act of 1965 in order to fulfill the Federal mandate to 
provide higher educational opportunities for Native American Indians.


                                 S. 756

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden), the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Udall), the Senator from 
Hawaii (Mr. Schatz), the Senator from Maine (Mr. King), the Senator 
from Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy), the Senator from Maine (Ms. Collins) and 
the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Cassidy) were added as cosponsors of S. 
756, a bill to reauthorize and amend the Marine Debris Act to promote 
international action to reduce marine debris, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 765

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 765, a bill to amend title 
18, United States Code, to provide for penalties for the sale of any 
Purple Heart awarded to a member of the Armed Forces.


                                 S. 808

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 808, a bill to provide protections 
for certain sports medicine professionals who provide certain medical 
services in a secondary State.


                                 S. 926

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 926, a bill to authorize 
the Global War on Terror Memorial Foundation to establish the National 
Global War on Terrorism Memorial as a commemorative work in the 
District of Columbia, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1024

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1024, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to reform the rights and processes relating to 
appeals of decisions regarding claims for benefits under the laws 
administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for other 
purposes.

[[Page S3147]]

  



                                S. 1050

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1050, a bill 
to award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the Chinese-
American Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated 
service during World War II.


                                S. 1081

  At the request of Mr. Sanders, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1081, a bill to 
establish an Employee Ownership and Participation Initiative, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1082

  At the request of Mr. Sanders, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1082, a bill to 
provide for the establishment of the United States Employee Ownership 
Bank, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1107

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1107, a bill to 
amend title 28, United States Code, to authorize the appointment of 
additional bankruptcy judges, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1141

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) and the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1141, a bill to ensure that the United States promotes 
the meaningful participation of women in mediation and negotiation 
processes seeking to prevent, mitigate, or resolve violent conflict.


                                S. 1191

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1191, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to refine how Medicare pays for 
orthotics and prosthetics and to improve beneficiary experience and 
outcomes with orthotic and prosthetic care, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 109

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 109, a resolution 
encouraging the Government of Pakistan to release Aasiya Noreen, 
internationally known as Asia Bibi, and reform its religiously 
intolerant laws regarding blasphemy.


                              S. RES. 162

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 162, a resolution 
reaffirming the commitment of the United States to promoting religious 
freedom, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 174

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mr. Alexander) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 174, a resolution 
recognizing the 100th anniversary of Lions Clubs International and 
celebrating the Lions Clubs International for a long history of 
humanitarian service.

                          ____________________



