

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5055]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 HONORING THE LIFE OF PHILANDO CASTILE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Illinois (Ms. Kelly) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. KELLY of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to remember a public 
servant taken from us too soon; an individual who, through his life and 
example, inspired others, especially children, to be respectful and 
kind; a man who lived his life in service to others, Philando Castile.
  In recent days, his name has been back in the headlines, but I want 
to talk about the person behind the stories. I want to talk about a man 
failed by our creed of liberty and justice for all. Philando Castile 
was the beloved nutrition services supervisor at J.J. Hill Montessori 
Magnet School, who was so invested in the young people he served, that 
he memorized the names and food allergies of more than 500 students.
  One of his coworkers said: Kids loved him. He was quiet, respectful, 
and kind. I knew him as warm and funny.
  Another said: He was as much a teacher as any teacher in that 
building.
  His life was an example of living honorably for your community, for 
your family, and for the more than 500 students who loved him. Even in 
his final moments, he showed respect and dignity in what must have been 
a terrifying experience.
  Mr. Castile's loss is our loss. He lived life as we all should: 
loving and respecting those around him. When he was told by an officer 
to get his ID, he complied and respectfully informed the officer that 
he was lawfully carrying a concealed firearm; that he had a valid 
permit. When he went to get his ID, as ordered, he was shot--not once, 
but seven times--not because of noncompliance, not because he was 
violent, not because he was a menacing threat. What killed him was his 
Blackness, or, more precisely, fear of his Blackness killed him.
  Tragically, his story is not unique. This happens every day to Black 
men and women in America. Philando's story only made headlines because 
it was live-streamed on Facebook and showed a 4-year-old girl sitting 
behind him as seven rounds were emptied into his chest. A 4-year-old 
girl, that even Philando's murderer said ``was in my line of fire.''
  Mr. Speaker, this murder was so downright outrageous that it led The 
Federalist, a publication that previously published an article on how 
Black Lives Matter protests were destroying America, to call the not-
guilty verdict an abomination.
  Indeed, this is an abomination and a complete miscarriage of justice. 
The Federalist and I see eye to eye on this one thing. Groups in the 
center, on the right, on the left, have publicly and vocally condemned 
his murder, except for one: the National Rifle Association. The NRA's 
silence is sickening, deafening, and very hypocritical in this tragic 
American hour. For decades, the NRA has used fearmongering to claim 
that they are the sole organization fighting to protect the rights of 
every American to carry a firearm.
  Where were they for Philando? Where is their outrage? Where is their 
stand for Philando's freedoms and rights? Where is their demand for 
better police training when dealing with citizens authorized to carry a 
firearm?
  Shame, they have no outrage at this verdict. Shame for their double 
standard in supporting people with valid concealed-carry permits. They 
offer nothing but a tepid Facebook statement expressing concern.
  Concern? The NRA has concern for Philando? Shame on the NRA. For 
them, it clearly isn't about rights for all. For NRA members who don't 
fit the right profile, they should give serious thought to even being 
members of the NRA.

                          ____________________



