

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 128 (Friday, July 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 128 (Friday, July 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H6571]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLTUIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of committees were delivered to 
the Clerk for printing and reference to the proper calendar, as 
follows:

       Mr. BISHOP of Utah: Committee on Natural Resources. H.R. 
     873. A bill to authorize the Global War on Terror Memorial 
     Foundation to establish the National Global War on Terrorism 
     Memorial as a commemorative work in the District of Columbia, 
     and for other purposes (Rept. 115-264). Referred to the 
     Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union.
       Mr. HENSARLING: Committee on Financial Services. House 
     Resolution 442. Resolution of inquiry directing the Secretary 
     of the Treasury to provide certain documents in the 
     Secretary's possession to the House of Representatives 
     relating to President Trump's financial connections to 
     Russia, certain illegal financial schemes, and related 
     information; adversely (Rept. 115-265). Referred to the House 
     Calendar.
       Mr. ROE of Tennessee: Committee on Veterans' Affairs. H.R. 
     95. A bill to amend title 28, United States Code, to direct 
     the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide child care 
     assistance to veterans receiving certain medical services 
     provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs, with an 
     amendment (Rept. 115-266). Referred to the Committee of the 
     Whole House on the state of the Union.
       Mr. ROE of Tennessee: Committee on Veterans' Affairs. H.R. 
     3262. A bill to require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
     carry out a pilot program to provide educational assistance 
     to certain former members of the Armed Forces for education 
     and training as physician assistants of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs, to establish pay grades and require 
     competitive pay for physician assistants of the Department, 
     and for other purposes; with an amendment (Rept. 115-267). 
     Referred to the Committee of the Whole House on the state of 
     the Union.
       Mr. GOWDY: Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. 
     H.R. 2195. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     provide for access of the Special Counsel to certain 
     information, with amendments (Rept. 115-268). Referred to the 
     Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union.
       Mr. SHUSTER: Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure. House Resolution 437. Resolution of inquiry 
     requesting the President to provide certain documents in the 
     President's possession; adversely (Rept. 115-269). Referred 
     to the House Calendar.
       Mr. McCAUL: Committee on Homeland Security. House 
     Resolution 447. Resolution directing the Secretary of 
     Homeland Security to transmit certain documents to the House 
     of Representatives relating to Department of Homeland 
     Security policies and activities relating to businesses owned 
     or controlled by President Donald J. Trump; adversely (Rept. 
     115-270). Referred to the House Calendar.

                          ____________________



