

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 82 (Thursday, May 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 82 (Thursday, May 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4189-H4190]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself, Mr. King of 
             New York, Ms. Meng, and Mr. Franks of Arizona):
       H.R. 2405. A bill to amend the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
     Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to clarify that houses of 
     worship are eligible for certain disaster relief and 
     emergency assistance on terms equal to other eligible private 
     nonprofit facilities, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. GOODLATTE:
       H.R. 2406. A bill to amend section 442 of the Homeland 
     Security Act of 2002 to authorize United States Immigration 
     and Customs Enforcement, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees 
     on Homeland Security, and Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GOODLATTE:
       H.R. 2407. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to establish United States Citizenship and Immigration 
     Services, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees on Homeland 
     Security, and Education and the Workforce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CHABOT (for himself and Ms. Kelly of Illinois):
       H.R. 2408. A bill to enhance the transparency, improve the 
     coordination, and intensify the impact of assistance to 
     support access to primary and secondary education for 
     displaced children and persons, including women and girls, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania (for himself and Mr. 
             Kilmer):
       H.R. 2409. A bill to allow servicemembers to terminate 
     their cable, satellite television, and Internet access 
     service contracts while deployed; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois (for himself and Mr. 
             Burgess):
       H.R. 2410. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     reauthorize a sickle cell disease prevention and treatment 
     demonstration program and to provide for sickle cell disease 
     research, surveillance, prevention, and treatment; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. ISSA:
       H.R. 2411. A bill to provide that certain current and 
     former Federal employees and members of the Armed Forces may 
     enroll in the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, and in addition to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. KAPTUR (for herself, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. 
             DeLauro, Mrs. Dingell, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Clay, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Ms. Norton, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Nolan, Mr. 
             Tonko, Mr. Walz, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Yarmuth, Ms. Moore, 
             Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Veasey, Mr. 
             Jeffries, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             Ms. Lee, Mr. Visclosky, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mrs. 
             Beatty, and Ms. Hanabusa):
       H.R. 2412. A bill to amend the Employee Retirement Income 
     Security Act of 1974 and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
     modify certain provisions relating to multiemployer pensions, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committees on the 
     Judiciary, and Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LANGEVIN:
       H.R. 2413. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for an investment tax credit related to the 
     production of electricity from offshore wind; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for himself and Mr. 
             Nadler):
       H.R. 2414. A bill to limit the amount of expenditure on 
     Presidential travel, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. MAST (for himself, Mr. Francis Rooney of 
             Florida, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. Posey, Ms. Ros-
             Lehtinen, Mr. Bilirakis, Ms. Tenney, Mr. Rutherford, 
             and Mr. Rohrabacher):
       H.R. 2415. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Army to 
     expedite completion of the reports for certain projects 
     included in the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure.
           By Ms. MENG (for herself and Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of 
             New York):
       H.R. 2416. A bill to require menstrual product ingredient 
     list labels; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. NADLER (for himself, Mr. Coffman, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Mr. Katko, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New 
             York, and Ms. Speier):

[[Page H4190]]

  

       H.R. 2417. A bill to eliminate discrimination and promote 
     women's health and economic security by ensuring reasonable 
     workplace accommodations for workers whose ability to perform 
     the functions of a job are limited by pregnancy, childbirth, 
     or a related medical condition; to the Committee on Education 
     and the Workforce, and in addition to the Committees on House 
     Administration, Oversight and Government Reform, and the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. NORTON (for herself, Mr. Nadler, Ms. DeLauro, 
             and Ms. Speier):
       H.R. 2418. A bill to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
     1938 to prohibit certain practices by employers relating to 
     restrictions on discussion of employees' and prospective 
     employees' salary and benefit history, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. ROUZER:
       H.R. 2419. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the process by which the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs pays non-Department of Veterans Affairs health care 
     providers for hospital care or medical services furnished to 
     veterans pursuant to the laws administered by the Secretary; 
     to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. ROUZER:
       H.R. 2420. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for tax preferred savings accounts for 
     individuals under age 26, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. TITUS (for herself, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Curbelo 
             of Florida, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Norton, Mr. O'Rourke, 
             Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Takano, Mr. Walz, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mr. Rush, Ms. Tsongas, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Coffman, Mrs. Lowey, 
             Mr. Perlmutter, and Mr. Peters):
       H.R. 2421. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     amend the definition of the term ``spouse'' to recognize new 
     State definitions of such term for the purpose of the laws 
     administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. HULTGREN (for himself, Mr. Franks of Arizona, 
             Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Fortenberry, and Ms. 
             Eshoo):
       H. Res. 319. A resolution reaffirming the commitment of the 
     United States to promoting religious freedom globally, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. MURPHY of Pennsylvania (for himself, Mr. Kilmer, 
             Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Larsen of 
             Washington, Mr. Peters, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Loebsack, Mrs. 
             Comstock, Mrs. Mimi Walters of California, Mr. 
             Meehan, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Butterfield, Ms. Clarke of New York, and Ms. 
             DelBene):
       H. Res. 320. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of May 2017 as ``Mental Health Month''; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. MENG (for herself and Mr. Royce of California):
       H. Res. 321. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that a commemorative postage stamp should 
     be issued in honor of the Chinese railroad workers from 1865 
     to 1869, and that the Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee 
     should recommend to the Postmaster General that such a stamp 
     be issued; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H. Res. 322. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives supporting the Federal workforce; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.

                          ____________________



