

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3040]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO PAMELA ROSSETTI

 Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, today I wish to ask my colleagues 
to join me in recognizing and congratulating Ms. Pamela Rossetti on her 
35 years of remarkable service as a fifth and sixth-grade teacher at 
Lincoln Street School in the Exeter, NH, School District. Throughout 
her career, Ms. Rossetti has gone above and beyond to meet the needs of 
her students, as well as her larger school community, by serving as an 
adviser on a number of committees and taking a leadership role in 
special projects throughout her tenure. The State of New Hampshire owes 
her a debt of gratitude for her service.
  Ms. Rossetti graduated with her B.A. from Notre Dame College in 
Manchester, NH, in 1981. She later received her masters of education 
from Leslie College in Cambridge, MA, with a concentration in 
integrated teaching through the arts. She was hired by the Exeter 
School District in 1982 as a sixth-grade teacher. After 2 years, she 
began teaching in the fifth grade, where she has taught for 33 years.
  Throughout her career, Ms. Rossetti has received accolades for her 
service. In 1983, she received a commendation from New Hampshire's 
Governor John H. Sununu in recognition of her work with a colleague to 
create an American citizenship course. She has been a member of both 
the science and social studies committees for the Exeter School 
District and served on a number of Lincoln Street School committees, 
including the arts and health committees. She has also been a mentor 
teacher and a trainer for the school district's Intel Teach to the 
Future Program, which focuses on integrating technology into 
curriculum.
  Ms. Rossetti has touched many lives in the Exeter School District, 
including my son Ben's. Ben experiences disabilities that leave him 
unable to communicate verbally. Ms. Rossetti was Ben's fifth-grade 
classroom teacher, and, shortly after the school year, she called me to 
tell me how smart Ben was. While my family had always thought that Ben 
was smart and funny, it was incredibly reassuring to know that an 
objective--and caring--educator thought so as well. She went on to tell 
me how she had assessed Ben's understanding of sophisticated content 
material.
  Ms. Rossetti's observation impressed me because, in a classroom of 
students where Ben received support from a special education team, Ms. 
Rossetti still took the time to get to know him and every one of her 
students as individuals. Because of her ability to do this, Ms. 
Rossetti has been able to customize her approach to her students and 
foster their growth and development. Many of Ms. Rossetti's students 
have been impacted by this level of support and have stayed in contact 
with her through the years.
  The Exeter School District and all of New Hampshire have benefitted 
greatly from Ms. Rossetti's devotion and service. On behalf of my 
colleagues and the U.S. Congress, I thank Ms. Pamela Rossetti for her 
unrelenting commitment to support every one of her students, as well as 
the entire school community, through her 35 years as a teacher, and I 
wish her the very best in her retirement.

                          ____________________



