

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 105 (Tuesday, June 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 105 (Tuesday, June 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3650-S3651]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 21

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Alabama (Mr. 
Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 21, a bill to amend chapter 8 
of title 5, United States Code, to provide that major rules of the 
executive branch shall have no force or effect unless a joint 
resolution of approval is enacted into law.


                                 S. 34

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 34, a bill to amend 
chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, to provide for the en bloc 
consideration in resolutions of disapproval for ``midnight rules'', and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 58

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Portman) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 58, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to repeal the excise tax on high cost employer-sponsored health 
coverage.


                                 S. 75

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the name of the Senator from 
Florida (Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 75, a bill to 
provide for the reconsideration of claims for disability compensation 
for veterans who were the subjects of experiments by the Department of 
Defense during World War II that were conducted to assess the effects 
of mustard gas or lewisite on people, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 167

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 167, a bill to designate 
a National Memorial to Fallen Educators at the National Teachers Hall 
of Fame in Emporia, Kansas.


                                 S. 170

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 170, a bill to provide for 
nonpreemption of measures by State and local governments to divest from 
entities that engage in commerce-related or investment-related boycott, 
divestment, or sanctions activities targeting Israel, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 374

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 374, a bill to 
enable concrete masonry products manufacturers to establish, finance, 
and carry out a coordinated program of research, education, and 
promotion to improve, maintain, and develop markets for concrete 
masonry products.


                                 S. 434

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 434, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to qualify homeless youth and veterans 
who are full-time students for purposes of the low income housing tax 
credit.


                                 S. 534

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Colorado (Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 534, a bill to 
prevent the sexual abuse of minors and amateur athletes by requiring 
the prompt reporting of sexual abuse to law enforcement authorities, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 569

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 569, a bill to 
amend title 54, United States Code, to provide consistent and reliable 
authority for, and for the funding of, the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund to maximize the effectiveness of the Fund for future generations, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 708

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 708, a bill to improve 
the ability of U.S. Customs and Border Protection to interdict 
fentanyl, other synthetic opioids, and other narcotics and psychoactive 
substances that are illegally imported into the United States, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 913

  At the request of Mr. King, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 913, a bill 
to amend the Older Americans Act of 1965 to establish an initiative, 
carried out by the Assistant Secretary for Aging, to coordinate Federal 
efforts and programs for home

[[Page S3651]]

modifications enabling older individuals to live independently and 
safely in a home environment, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 929

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 929, a bill to improve the 
HUBZone program.


                                S. 1008

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1008, a bill to amend the 
Controlled Substances Act to exclude cannabidiol and cannabidiol-rich 
plants from the definition of marihuana, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1024

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1024, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to reform the rights and processes relating to 
appeals of decisions regarding claims for benefits under the laws 
administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1237

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1237, a bill to 
amend title 11 of the United States Code to clarify the rule allowing 
discharge as a nonpriority claim of governmental claims arising from 
the disposition of farm assets under chapter 12 bankruptcies.


                                S. 1320

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the names of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker), the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan), 
the Senator from Maine (Mr. King), and the Senator from Kansas (Mr. 
Moran) were added as cosponsors of S. 1320, a bill to reform 
apportionments to general aviation airports under the airport 
improvement program, to improve project delivery at certain airports, 
and to designate certain airports as disaster relief airports, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1343

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1343, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code to extend and modify certain charitable tax 
provisions.


                                S. 1349

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1349, a bill to provide that 
the rate of military basic pay for the Senior Enlisted Advisors to the 
commanders of the combatant commands shall be equivalent to the rate of 
military basic pay for the Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chairman of 
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1354

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1354, a bill to 
establish an Individual Market Reinsurance fund to provide funding for 
State individual market stabilization reinsurance programs.


                              S.J. RES. 46

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 46, a 
joint resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the 
United States authorizing the Congress to prohibit the physical 
desecration of the flag of the United States.


                              S. RES. 154

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 154, a resolution 
promoting awareness of motorcycle profiling and encouraging 
collaboration and communication with the motorcycle community and law 
enforcement officials to prevent instances of profiling.


                              S. RES. 194

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from 
Nebraska (Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 194, a 
resolution designating June 15, 2017, as ``World Elder Abuse Awareness 
Day''.

                          ____________________



