

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 81 (Wednesday, May 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 81 (Wednesday, May 10, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2882-S2883]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 139

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 139, a bill to implement 
the use of Rapid DNA instruments to inform decisions about pretrial 
release or detention and their conditions, to solve and prevent violent 
crimes and other crimes, to exonerate the innocent, to prevent DNA 
analysis backlogs, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 203

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 203, a bill to reaffirm 
that the Environmental Protection Agency may not regulate vehicles used 
solely for competition, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 322, a bill to 
protect victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and 
dating violence from emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts 
of violence or threats of violence against their pets.


                                 S. 378

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Utah 
(Mr. Lee) was added as a cosponsor of S. 378, a bill to amend titles 5 
and 28, United States Code, to require the maintenance of databases on 
awards of fees and other expenses to prevailing parties in certain 
administrative proceedings and court cases to which the United States 
is a party, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) and the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Bennet) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 407, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
to permanently extend the railroad track maintenance credit.


                                 S. 423

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 423, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to increase the maximum age for 
children eligible for medical care under the CHAMPVA program, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 428

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 428, a bill to 
amend titles XIX and XXI of the Social Security Act to authorize States 
to provide coordinated care to children with complex medical conditions 
through enhanced pediatric health homes, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 431

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 431, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to expand the use of telehealth for 
individuals with stroke.


                                 S. 459

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 459, a bill to 
designate the area between the intersections of Wisconsin Avenue, 
Northwest and Davis Street, Northwest and Wisconsin Avenue, Northwest 
and Edmunds Street, Northwest in Washington, District of Columbia, as 
``Boris Nemtsov Plaza'', and for other purposes.


                                 S. 509

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Utah 
(Mr. Lee) was added as a cosponsor of S. 509, a bill to improve the 
control and management of invasive species that threaten and harm 
Federal land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture and 
the Secretary of the Interior, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 563

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 563, a bill to amend the Flood 
Disaster Protection Act of 1973 to require that certain buildings and 
personal property be covered by flood insurance, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 569

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 569, a bill to amend 
title 54, United States Code, to provide consistent and reliable 
authority for, and for the funding of, the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund to maximize the effectiveness of the Fund for future generations, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 573

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 573, a bill to establish 
the National Criminal Justice Commission.


                                 S. 583

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from 
Illinois (Mr. Durbin) and the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 583, a bill to amend the Omnibus Crime 
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to authorize COPS grantees to use 
grant funds to hire veterans as career law enforcement officers, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr) was added as a cosponsor of S. 654, a bill to 
revise section 48 of title 18, United States Code, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 670

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 670, a bill to provide for the 
regulation of over-the-counter hearing aids.


                                 S. 704

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 704, a bill 
to provide that members of the Armed Forces performing services in the 
Sinai Peninsula of Egypt shall be entitled to tax benefits in the same 
manner as if such services were performed in a combat zone.


                                 S. 721

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 721, a bill to require the 
disclosure of certain visitor access records.


                                 S. 772

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the names of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Udall) and the Senator from Montana (Mr. Daines) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 772, a bill to amend the PROTECT Act to make Indian 
tribes eligible for AMBER Alert grants.


                                 S. 808

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr. 
Roberts) was added as a cosponsor of S. 808, a bill to provide 
protections for certain sports medicine professionals who provide 
certain medical services in a secondary State.


                                 S. 939

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.

[[Page S2883]]

Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 939, a bill to reserve any 
amounts forfeited to the United States Government as a result of the 
criminal prosecution of Joaquin Archivaldo Guzman Loera (commonly known 
as ``El Chapo''), or of other felony convictions involving the 
transportation of controlled substances into the United States, for 
security measures along the Southern border, including the completion 
of a border wall.


                                 S. 954

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 954, a bill to 
prevent harassment at institutions of higher education, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 980

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 980, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for payments for 
certain rural health clinic and Federally qualified health center 
services furnished to hospice patients under the Medicare program.


                                S. 1018

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1018, a bill to provide 
humanitarian assistance for the Venezuelan people, to defend democratic 
governance and combat widespread public corruption in Venezuela, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1034

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1034, a bill to 
improve agricultural job opportunities, benefits, and security for 
aliens in the United States, and for other purposes.


                            S. CON. RES. 12

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 12, a 
concurrent resolution expressing the sense of Congress that those who 
served in the bays, harbors, and territorial seas of the Republic of 
Vietnam during the period beginning on January 9, 1962, and ending on 
May 7, 1975, should be presumed to have served in the Republic of 
Vietnam for all purposes under the Agent Orange Act of 1991.


                              S. RES. 109

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 109, a resolution encouraging 
the Government of Pakistan to release Aasiya Noreen, internationally 
known as Asia Bibi, and reform its religiously intolerant laws 
regarding blasphemy.


                              S. RES. 155

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from 
California (Ms. Harris) and the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono) were 
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 155, a resolution expressing the sense 
of the Senate that the United States should work in cooperation with 
the international community and continue to exercise global leadership 
to address the causes and effects of climate change, and for other 
purposes.

                          ____________________



