

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4654-H4655]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           HEALTHY FARMS: HEALTHY ECONOMY AND A SECURE NATION

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Costa) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak about the foundation of 
healthy living and healthy communities: our food, which comes from our 
farms.
  This month is both National Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Month and 
National Dairy Month. Although we should bring attention to the 
importance of eating these nutrient-rich foods, dairy and fresh fruits 
and vegetables play a much larger role, as we know, in the health of 
our communities and our country, and they do so not just by providing 
us food.
  In California, we know that dairy products and fresh fruits and 
vegetables are an integral part of our healthy community and a strong 
economy. Our farmers also provide economic development in other sectors 
as businesses are created and expand, investments are made, and 
innovations arise to support the needs of these farmers and farm 
communities.
  But the economic contributions of California agriculture--American 
agriculture--do not end at our borders. In California, we produce half 
of the Nation's fruits and vegetables, and we are the top milk 
producing State in the Nation. The men and women who own and work on 
these farms provide both nutritious food for our families and create 
thousands of jobs across the country.
  We know we must make sure that our farmers have the tools to do so, 
but our farmers need a reliable source of water, a legal and stable 
workforce, and access to export markets, in other words, fair trade 
agreements.
  We must also ensure that American agriculture is sustainable. We must 
continue to ensure that it is sustainable for our well-being and the 
well-being of future generations to come because the bottom line is 
food does not come from a grocery store. Food comes from our farmers 
and the land that they farm.
  Our food supply is a national security issue, but it never really 
gets looked at in that light. So by investing in critical programs and 
infrastructure projects--by ensuring that our farmers have the water, 
the workforce, and the access to foreign markets--we are not only 
investing in our farms, but we are investing in the long-term health 
and security of our Nation.
  What is more, people don't realize it, but less than 3 percent of our 
Nation's population is directly involved in the

[[Page H4655]]

production of food and fiber. This is part of the amazing development 
of American agriculture. So equally crucial for the sustainability of 
American agriculture are our export markets and our trade agreements. 
That means improving NAFTA, continuing to engage with our European 
allies, and not turning our back on Asia.
  In fiscal year 2016, the United States exported $129 billion worth of 
agricultural products. We not only feed our Nation every night, but we 
grow more than enough to export abroad. We must maintain good relations 
with our top trade partners and continue to lower trade barriers to 
existing and new foreign markets.
  So let's not just focus on healthy eating during National Fresh Fruit 
and Vegetable Month and National Dairy Month; let's take the 
opportunity to discuss how we will work together to ensure that our 
farmers, ranchers, and dairymen and -women can continue to contribute 
not only to America's dinner tables, but to our communities and to our 
economy. The health and security of our Nation depends on it.


                      Congratulating Ananya Vinay

  Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, let me also give a shout-out to Ananya Vinay, 
the 2017 National Spelling Bee champion, from Fresno, California. We 
are all proud of her accomplishments. Obviously, this young lady has a 
great future ahead of her.
  Congratulations, once again, on becoming the 2017 National Spelling 
Bee champion.

                          ____________________



