

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5767-H5768]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




     HONORING FLORIDA HIGHWAY PATROL MASTER SERGEANT WILLIAM BISHOP

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Florida (Mr. Yoho) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with a heavy heart in honor of 
Florida's Highway Patrol Master Sergeant William Bishop, who lost his 
life in the line of duty on June 17 in Alachua, Florida.
  Throughout three decades of public service, Master Sergeant Bishop 
demonstrated a clear and noble commitment to others. His tragic passing 
reminds us all of the real dangers that law enforcement officers face 
on a daily basis.
  So many are quick to criticize the police, yet they are the first 
ones they call when they need help.
  I join my colleagues and friends in thanking all law enforcement 
personnel around the Nation standing ready to risk their lives to 
safeguard our communities.
  Master Sergeant Bishop's memory will live on through his fellow 
officers, family, and members of the public whose lives were positively 
impacted through a selfless dedication. I ask that you keep his wife 
and son in your thoughts and prayers during this difficult time.


                     Recognizing Dr. Martha Roberts

  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I would like to recognize Dr. Martha Roberts, 
a championed member of the Florida agricultural community and the 
latest recipient of the Florida's Woman of the Year in Agriculture 
award.
  Dr. Roberts' esteemed career includes 35 years at the Florida 
Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services. She is also a member 
of many Federal advisory groups, committees, and associations where her 
expertise has not only benefited the State of Florida but also the 
Nation.
  More specifically, Dr. Roberts served as the director of the 
University of Florida's Institute of Food and Agricultural Science 
program, a Federal-State-county partnership dedicated to developing 
knowledge in agriculture and natural resources located in my home 
district.
  Through her work with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. 
Department of Agriculture, and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Dr. 
Roberts has helped shape policy that will advance Florida's 
agricultural industry and trades for years to come.
  I would like to congratulate Dr. Roberts on her accomplishment and 
thank her for her dedication to agriculture and food safety. Her 
positive, meaningful contributions to Florida's Third Congressional 
District and the Nation will not be overlooked.


                   Congratulating the Florida Gators

  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the Florida 
Gators for winning their first ever College Baseball World Series.
  Florida coach Kevin O'Sullivan never doubted that his Gators would 
win a national championship. It was just a matter of time. He has done 
a tremendous job coaching a talented roster of student athletes.
  With this victory, UF becomes the first university in the SEC and 
only the fourth in the Nation to win a national championship in 
football, men's basketball, and now baseball. No one can ever take that 
away from this team or the Gator nation.
  I stand with all UF alumni, the Rowdy Reptiles, and the entire Gator 
nation when I say I could not be more proud of this team and the finest 
academic and athletic institution in the State of Florida. Go Gators.

[[Page H5768]]

  



Thanking Secretary Perdue and USDA's Food Safety and Inspection Service

  Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of Secretary Purdue 
and the USDA's Food Safety and Inspection Service for implementing a 
suspension of all imports of fresh beef from Brazil.

  I would also like to thank my colleagues from across the aisle for 
joining together to back this crucial step to ensure the health and 
safety of American families.
  Since March, the USDA has blocked 11 percent of fresh beef from 
Brazil due to safety concerns. As one of the world's leaders in beef 
production, the United States has the responsibility to set the highest 
possible standards for what we allow in our Nation's kitchens, grocery 
stores, and restaurants.
  Brazil is an important trading partner, and we value our mutually 
beneficial relationships, but we cannot allow this substandard with 
potential health hazards of beef to enter our food supply.
  I am encouraged by the Brazilian Government's commitment to fixing 
these issues, and I look forward to reestablishing relationships with 
the Brazilian beef market as soon as we can be assured that its 
qualities meet the high standards of the USDA.

                          ____________________



