

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3326-S3327]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                RECOGNIZING THE WOMEN'S MINING COALITION

  Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 
Women's Mining Coalition, a Nevada-born group that has devoted 25 years 
of service advocating for a strong U.S. mining industry. I am proud to 
honor the significant contributions the Women's Mining Coalition has 
made to the mining industry in the State of Nevada and throughout our 
Nation. I am extremely proud of their successes and am grateful for how 
it has benefited the Silver State.
  In 1993, three Nevada geologists--Kathy Benedetto, Ruth Carraher, and 
Debbie Struhsacker--started the Women's Mining Coalition in response to 
the congressional debate to enact major changes to the U.S. mining law 
that would threaten the future of Nevada's mining industry and hard 
rock mining throughout the country. At that time, they never dreamed 
that their concept would involve more than taking a couple of trips to 
Washington, to talk to lawmakers about mineral exploration, the 
importance of mining, and that mining is a good career for women, but 
this Battle-Born Nevada concept has become a nationwide, quarter-
century commitment to talk to Members of Congress about how modern 
mining provides the building blocks of our society while caring for the 
environment and providing family-wage jobs to miners and the many 
companies throughout the country that provide equipment, goods, and 
services to the mineral exploration and mining sectors.
  Each year, WMC's Nevada members travel to the group's annual 
Washington, DC fly-in. These Nevada women represent the diverse 
domestic mining industry and discuss legislative issues and proposed 
rules affecting mining. During these meetings, WMC members put a face 
to mining that lawmakers don't expect: women involved in all facets of 
mining, from equipment operators and manufacturers, engineers, 
executives, miners, metallurgists, geologists, and environmental 
scientists.
  Last September at a banquet in Las Vegas, the group received the 
prestigious Prazen Living Legends of Mining Award from the National 
Mining Hall of Fame for their many years of service and commitment to 
the mining industry. Not resting on their laurels, the Women's Mining 
Coalition is in Washington, DC, this week to continue their work to let 
Congress know that a strong mining industry is essential to the future 
of Nevada and our Nation.

[[Page S3327]]

Our national defense, our infrastructure, our electricity, our 
technology, our agriculture, our transportation, and communication 
capabilities all rely on the products of mining. The Women's Mining 
Coalition will continue to make this message heard with energy, talent, 
and enthusiasm.
  As the senior Senator from the Silver State, I ask my colleagues and 
all Nevadans to join me in congratulating the Women's Mining Coalition 
on its 25 years of thoughtful advocacy on behalf of mining in Nevada 
and across the country. This group has advanced Nevada's mining 
industry, and I am honored to recognize this important contribution. I 
wish the Women's Mining Coalition well in its future endeavors in 
creating greater opportunities for mining in our great State.

                          ____________________



