

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4476-H4477]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




      VETERANS' COMPENSATION COST-OF-LIVING ADJUSTMENT ACT OF 2017

  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and 
pass the bill (H.R. 1329) to increase, effective as of December 1, 
2017, the rates of compensation for veterans with service-connected 
disabilities and the rates of dependency and indemnity compensation for 
the survivors of certain disabled veterans, to amend title 38, United 
States Code, to improve the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans 
Claims, to improve the processing of claims by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 1329

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Veterans' Compensation Cost-
     of-Living Adjustment Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. INCREASE IN RATES OF DISABILITY COMPENSATION AND 
                   DEPENDENCY AND INDEMNITY COMPENSATION.

       (a) Rate Adjustment.--Effective on December 1, 2017, the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall increase, in accordance 
     with subsection (c), the dollar amounts in effect on November 
     30, 2017, for the payment of disability compensation and 
     dependency and indemnity compensation under the provisions 
     specified in subsection (b).
       (b) Amounts To Be Increased.--The dollar amounts to be 
     increased pursuant to subsection (a) are the following:
       (1) Wartime disability compensation.--Each of the dollar 
     amounts under section 1114 of title 38, United States Code.
       (2) Additional compensation for dependents.--Each of the 
     dollar amounts under section 1115(1) of such title.
       (3) Clothing allowance.--The dollar amount under section 
     1162 of such title.
       (4) Dependency and indemnity compensation to surviving 
     spouse.--Each of the dollar amounts under subsections (a) 
     through (d) of section 1311 of such title.
       (5) Dependency and indemnity compensation to children.--
     Each of the dollar amounts under sections 1313(a) and 1314 of 
     such title.
       (c) Determination of Increase.--Each dollar amount 
     described in subsection (b) shall be increased by the same 
     percentage as the percentage by which benefit amounts payable 
     under title II of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401 et 
     seq.) are increased effective December 1, 2017, as a result 
     of a determination under section 215(i) of such Act (42 
     U.S.C. 415(i)).
       (d) Special Rule.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may 
     adjust administratively, consistent with the increases made 
     under subsection (a), the rates of disability compensation 
     payable to persons under section 10 of Public Law 85-857 (72 
     Stat. 1263) who have not received compensation under chapter 
     11 of title 38, United States Code.

     SEC. 3. PUBLICATION OF ADJUSTED RATES.

       The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall publish in the 
     Federal Register the amounts specified in section 2(b), as 
     increased under that section, not later than the date on 
     which the matters specified in section 215(i)(2)(D) of the 
     Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 415(i)(2)(D)) are required to 
     be published by reason of a determination made under section 
     215(i) of such Act during fiscal year 2018.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Tennessee (Mr. Roe) and the gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. Walz) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Tennessee.


                             General Leave

  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I ask that all Members have 5 
legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks and to 
insert extraneous material in the Record on H.R. 1329, as amended.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Tennessee?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  H.R. 1329, as amended, is one of the most important bills the House 
will take up this year. This bill will help ensure that the benefits 
paid to veterans who are disabled as a result of their military service 
do not lose value because of inflation. H.R. 1329, as amended, 
authorizes a cost-of-living increase for veterans and their families 
next year as long as Social Security recipients receive an increase.
  We pass this bill every year, and it has always enjoyed wide, 
bipartisan support. This year's bill was introduced by the Subcommittee 
on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs Chairman Bost and Ranking 
Member Esty.
  I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1329, as amended, and help 
disabled veterans and their families keep up with the rate of 
inflation.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. WALZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I rise to support H.R. 1329, as amended. The Veterans' Compensation 
Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act provides a 1-year cost-of-living 
adjustment for the rate of compensation for veterans with service-
connected disabilities as well as the rates of dependency and indemnity 
compensation for survivors.
  As most of us know, this adjustment is tied directly to the rates of 
increase in Social Security benefits. Disability payments are vital to 
the economic well-being of most veterans, and that support should never 
be eroded by inflation. This bill ensures that does not happen.
  I thank Chairman Roe for bringing the bill to us in a totally 
bipartisan process, and the Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and 
Memorial Affairs, as always.
  The names of Chairman Bost and Ranking Member Esty have been brought 
up a lot today. It says something about it. They are tackling issues 
that have lasted years. They are bringing up important issues that are 
going to impact the well-being of veterans. You heard them both say it. 
They did so in a bipartisan manner that I think serves the reputation 
of this House well. We sorely need more true bipartisan problem solving 
like this.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Illinois (Mr. Bost), the chairman of the Subcommittee on 
Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs, Chairman Bost.
  Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1329, the 
Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2017. This bill 
should be a top priority for all of us this year. H.R. 1329 should 
ensure that the veterans receive a cost-of-living increase next year if 
Social Security recipients get one.
  We all know that the price keeps going up and that if veterans' 
benefits don't keep pace, veterans and their families may have a hard 
time paying for basic necessities like food, shelter, and clothing. 
This bill is extremely important to our Nation's veterans. I ask all 
Members to support it.
  I want to thank the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Disability 
Assistance and Memorial Affairs, Ms. Esty, for her support of this 
legislation. I urge my colleagues, all, also to support H.R. 1329.
  Mr. WALZ. Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker. I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from

[[Page H4477]]

Florida (Mr. Bilirakis), the vice chairman of our committee.

                              {time}  1600

  Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, this truly is a bipartisan committee 
under the able leadership of Chairman Roe and Ranking Member Walz.
  Again, I am proud to serve on this committee.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1329, the Veterans' 
Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act. Passage of this bill gives 
our Nation's veterans the same cost-of-living adjustment as those 
receiving benefits through Social Security.
  These brave men and women have sacrificed so much for the freedoms 
and liberties we enjoy on a daily basis. As a grateful nation, we must 
ensure that those who put themselves in harm's way are able to receive 
the benefits they have earned and deserve. Providing for our Nation's 
true American heroes is not a partisan issue, but simply the right 
thing to do.
  Mr. Speaker, approximately 1.6 million veterans reside in the great 
State of Florida, where so many veterans call home after serving in the 
military. As vice chairman of the House Veterans' Affairs Committee, I 
am so very proud that Florida is considered one of the most veteran 
friendly States across the country.
  Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my colleague, Representative Mike Bost 
from Indiana, for introducing this very important piece of legislation.
  As a cosponsor of H.R. 1329, I urge all of my colleagues to support 
our Nation's heroes and pass the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living 
Adjustment Act.
  Mr. WALZ. Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Maine (Mr. Poliquin), my good friend and a member of our 
committee.
  Mr. POLIQUIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman very much for this 
opportunity to speak on behalf of H.R. 1329, and I salute Congressman 
Bost from Illinois and Congresswoman Esty from the great State of 
Connecticut for their great work in a bipartisan fashion to help our 
heroes.
  I think, Mr. Speaker, it was our first Commander in Chief, George 
Washington, who said, in effect, that we can never expect our young men 
and women to step forward and serve our country in uniform unless and 
until we make sure we take care of those who have already returned from 
the battlefield.
  Now, in the State of Maine, Mr. Speaker, we love our veterans. We 
have about 125,000 of our heroes in our State of Maine, more than half 
of whom are in the rural part of our State, the Second Congressional 
District of Maine, that I am honored to represent.
  I think it is a great idea and about time that we make sure that we 
come before the American people, Republicans and Democrats together, to 
make sure that our veterans receive a cost-of-living adjustment--those 
who have been disabled--as a result of their service for our country.
  Mr. Speaker, I ask all Republicans and Democrats on this committee 
and in this body to please support H.R. 1329. It is the right thing to 
do, to give a cost-of-living increase to our veterans.
  Mr. WALZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1329. But as we get ready to 
close on the final piece of seven pieces of legislation, some that have 
taken years, that have included diverse groups coming together to try 
to find solutions, you are seeing today all seven of these bills are 
going to pass this House. They are going to pass with overwhelmingly, 
if not unanimous, bipartisan support.
  I have stood on this floor and have expressed my displeasure and my 
discomfort when we don't work together. Today it is one of those 
pleasures to stand here and say this is what the American people 
expect, and this is the hard work that needs to be done. That kind of 
thing does not happen by chance. It usually takes one person standing 
at the middle of that in leadership to make it happen.
  I would like to thank my friend and colleague, our chairman of the 
committee, the gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. Roe), for ensuring that 
veterans come before politics, veterans come before partisan 
differences, and that veterans legislation can be done together in a 
bipartisan manner. So, I thank him for that and encourage support of 
all of these pieces of legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  I want to thank my good friend, Sergeant Major Walz for his kind 
words.
  Certainly, what we try to do on the Veterans' Affairs Committee is 
leave Republican and Democrat at the door of the committee room and go 
and do the work of the veterans for what is best for them. It is a true 
pleasure and honor, if you have ever attended one of our meetings, to 
see that and to see the effort of all Members. And you can see here 
today, with seven important pieces of legislation passed, it will help 
improve the lives of our veterans.
  I know, for me, that this time of the year--and I feel sure that my 
friends on the other side of the aisle feel the same way--is one of the 
most difficult times of the year. It is Memorial Day. And I don't think 
we need to forget, this coming Monday, what that means. It is for all 
of those who didn't make it home who protected this great country.
  I know, myself, I get some guilt this time of year. I was a drafted 
soldier, as many of us were. I served my time in 1973 and 1974 in 
Korea, just south of the DMZ. Many of my friends didn't make it home 
from Vietnam. I still feel for them and their families.
  I know every Memorial Day, when I attend a service for veterans, it 
is difficult for me to get through that day because I got to come home, 
as all of us here who are serving did. We got to raise our children and 
see our grandchildren be born. These men and women who died in Vietnam 
and other wars didn't get to do that, as young people are doing today. 
So I can't thank, enough, the veterans of this great Nation who serve 
us every day and keep us free.
  Mr. Speaker, I encourage all Members to support H.R. 1329, as 
amended, and I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. Roe) that the House suspend the rules and 
pass the bill, H.R. 1329, as amended.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed.
  The title of the bill was amended so as to read: ``A bill to 
increase, effective as of December 1, 2017, the rates of compensation 
for veterans with service-connected disabilities and the rates of 
dependency and indemnity compensation for the survivors of certain 
disabled veterans, and for other purposes.''.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



