

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 99 (Monday, June 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 99 (Monday, June 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4829-H4830]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




           EXTENDING A PROJECT INVOLVING THE CANNONSVILLE DAM

  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill 
(H.R. 2292) to extend a project of the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission involving the Cannonsville Dam.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 2292

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. EXTENSION OF TIME FOR A FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY 
                   COMMISSION PROJECT INVOLVING CANNONSVILLE DAM.

       (a) In General.--Notwithstanding the time period specified 
     in section 13 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 806) that 
     would otherwise apply to the Federal Energy Regulatory 
     Commission project numbered 13287, the Federal Energy 
     Regulatory Commission (referred to in this section as the 
     ``Commission'') may, at the request of the licensee for the 
     project, and after reasonable notice, in accordance with the 
     good faith, due diligence, and public interest requirements 
     of that section and the procedures of the Commission under 
     that section, extend the time period during which the 
     licensee is required to commence construction of the project 
     for up to 4 consecutive 2-year periods after the required 
     date of the commencement of construction described in Article 
     301 of the license.
       (b) Reinstatement of Expired License.--
       (1) In general.--If the required date of the commencement 
     of construction described in subsection (a) has expired prior 
     to the date of enactment of this Act, the Commission may 
     reinstate the license effective as of that date of 
     expiration.
       (2) Extension.--If the Commission reinstates the license 
     under paragraph (1), the first extension authorized under 
     subsection (a) shall take effect on the date of that 
     expiration.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Michigan (Mr. Upton) and the gentlewoman from Colorado (Ms. DeGette) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Michigan.


                             GENERAL LEAVE

  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members have 
5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and to include 
any extraneous material in the Record on the bill.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Michigan?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

[[Page H4830]]

  This bill, H.R. 2292, was introduced by Mr. Faso from New York, and 
the bill authorizes the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, FERC, 
upon request, to extend by 8 years the time period during which 
construction must commence on the Cannonsville hydroelectric project--
which is located on the west branch of the Delaware River in the 
Catskill Mountains of upstate New York.
  The city of New York was granted a construction license for the 
Cannonsville hydroelectric project on May 13, 2014. Additionally, FERC 
may reinstate the construction license if it is expired. The bill was 
reported by unanimous consent from the Energy and Commerce Committee, 
and I support its passage on the floor today.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. DeGETTE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2292, a bill to extend the 
deadline for commencement and construction of a hydroelectric project 
involving the Cannonsville Dam.
  On May 13, 2014, FERC licensed construction of a hydroelectric 
facility at the Cannonsville Reservoir located on the west branch of 
the Delaware River in Delaware County, New York. The licensee for this 
project was not able to commence construction by the deadline of May 
2016.
  The additional reviews and repairs to the dam, which are necessary to 
begin construction of the hydroelectric project, will delay 
construction commencement beyond the expiration date of the original 
license and the 2-year extension which FERC is authorized to grant.
  The bill would, therefore, authorize FERC to extend up to 8 years the 
date by which the licensee is required to commence construction.
  Similar legislation passed the House during the 114th Congress by a 
vote of 417-2. I urge my colleagues to support the bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield as much time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from New York (Mr. Faso).
  Mr. FASO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express support for my 
legislation, H.R. 2292, which would extend the construction period for 
the hydroelectric project at New York City's Cannonsville Dam in 
Delaware County, New York.
  Once completed, the Cannonsville hydroelectric project will generate 
over 42,000 megawatt hours of electricity each year, enough to avoid 
the emission of 24,000 tons of greenhouse gases. But, unfortunately, 
the project is in jeopardy due to this time lag.
  Current Federal Energy Regulation Commission regulations allow a 
licensee 2 years to begin construction of a hydroelectric project once 
the license has been issued. The FERC may extend the deadline for an 
additional 2 years, but this may only be done once.
  If construction has not begun on the project by the expiration of the 
second extension, the Commission will terminate the license, risking 
all of the hard work and planning that had been put into the project 
development.
  I introduced this legislation to further extend the deadline for 
construction at the Cannonsville site, because the second FERC-granted 
extension will expire shortly, and construction has not yet begun.
  By allowing for additional time for commencement of construction, we 
can help protect downstream communities and ensure the safe development 
of a clean and renewable energy project on this New York City-owned 
facility.
  Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank Mr. Upton, the chairman of the 
subcommittee, and Ms. DeGette, the ranking member of the subcommittee, 
and also thank the sponsors from New York State on this bipartisan 
legislation, including Mr. Espaillat, Ms. Meng, Mr. Nadler, Ms. Clarke, 
Mr. Engel, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Donovan, Mr. Collins, and Mrs. Maloney.
  By bringing together the stakeholders from across the Empire State, 
we have ensured that a variety of constituent concerns have been met in 
the development of this legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 2292 so that we can 
further protect public water supplies for New York City and help 
strengthen and modernize our Nation's energy infrastructure.
  Ms. DeGETTE. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote for the bill, 
and I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Upton) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 2292.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



