

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 66 (Friday, April 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 66 (Friday, April 14, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2804]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
       H.R. 2093. A bill to provide for an alternative body to 
     transmit a written declaration that the President is unable 
     to discharge the powers and duties of his office in 
     accordance with the provisions of the 25th Amendment of the 
     Constitution; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GOTTHEIMER (for himself and Mr. Fitzpatrick):
       H.R. 2094. A bill to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to 
     establish deadlines for promulgation of national primary 
     drinking water regulations for certain contaminants, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. NORTON (for herself, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, Mrs. Davis of California, and Mr. Pallone):
       H.R. 2095. A bill to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
     1938 to prohibit discrimination in the payment of wages on 
     account of sex, race, or national origin, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. NORTON (for herself, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Conyers, 
             Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. 
             Bass, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, Mrs. Beatty, Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Wilson of Florida, and Ms. 
             Jayapal):
       H.R. 2096. A bill to amend the Juvenile Justice and 
     Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 to require the publication 
     of certain demographic data regarding missing children, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. PERRY (for himself and Mr. LaMalfa):
       H.R. 2097. A bill to prevent the reclassification of 
     certain ammunition as armor piercing ammunition; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. PERRY:
       H.R. 2098. A bill to eliminate the authority of the 
     executive branch to further restrict the conduct of 
     individuals in relation to firearms or ammunition; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. TAKANO:
       H.R. 2099. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     consider certain time spent by members of reserve components 
     of the Armed Forces while receiving medical care from the 
     Secretary of Defense as active duty for purposes of 
     eligibility for Post-9/11 Educational Assistance, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. TAKANO:
       H.R. 2100. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     extend the authority to provide work-study allowance for 
     certain activities by individuals receiving educational 
     assistance by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.

                          ____________________



