

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 99 (Monday, June 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 99 (Monday, June 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4828]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 REINSTATING AND EXTENDING DEADLINE FOR CONSTRUCTION OF HYDROELECTRIC 
                             PROJECT 12715

  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill 
(H.R. 2122) to reinstate and extend the deadline for commencement of 
construction of a hydroelectric project involving Jennings Randolph 
Dam.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 2122

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. REINSTATEMENT AND EXTENSION OF TIME FOR A FEDERAL 
                   ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION PROJECT INVOLVING 
                   JENNINGS RANDOLPH DAM.

       (a) Extension of Time.--Notwithstanding the time period 
     specified in section 13 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 
     806) that would otherwise apply to the Federal Energy 
     Regulatory Commission project numbered 12715 (referred to in 
     this section as the ``project''), the Federal Energy 
     Regulatory Commission (referred to in this section as the 
     ``Commission'') may, at the request of the licensee for the 
     project, and after reasonable notice, in accordance with the 
     good faith, due diligence, and public interest requirements 
     of, and the procedures of the Commission under, that section, 
     extend the time period during which the licensee is required 
     to commence the construction of the project for not more than 
     3 consecutive 2-year periods that begin on the date of the 
     expiration of the extension originally issued by the 
     Commission.
       (b) Obligation of Licensee.--Any obligation of the licensee 
     for the project for the payment of annual charges under 
     section 10(e) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 803(e)) 
     shall commence on the expiration of the time period to 
     commence construction of the project, as extended by the 
     Commission under subsection (a).
       (c) Reinstatement of Expired License.--
       (1) In general.--If the period required for the 
     commencement of construction of the project has expired 
     before the date of enactment of this Act, the Commission may 
     reinstate the license effective as of the date of the 
     expiration of the license.
       (2) Extension.--If the Commission reinstates the license 
     under paragraph (1), the first extension authorized under 
     subsection (a) shall take effect on the date of the 
     expiration of the license.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Michigan (Mr. Upton) and the gentlewoman from Colorado (Ms. DeGette) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Michigan.


                             General Leave

  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and 
insert extraneous material in the Record on the bill.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Michigan?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, this bill, H.R. 2122, was introduced by the gentleman 
from West Virginia (Mr. McKinley), and it authorizes the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission, FERC, upon request, to extend by 6 years the 
time period during which construction must commence on the Jennings 
Randolph Hydroelectric Project, which is located on the North Branch of 
the Potomac River in Garrett County, Maryland, and Mineral County, West 
Virginia. Additionally, FERC may reinstate the construction license if 
it has expired.
  A similar bill passed under suspension in the 114th Congress, so I 
hope that we can pass it again today.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Ms. DeGETTE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2122, a bill to extend the 
deadline for commencement of construction of a hydroelectric project 
involving the Jennings Randolph Dam, sponsored by my Energy and 
Commerce Committee colleague, Mr. McKinley.
  In March 2012, FERC licensed the construction of a hydroelectric 
facility at the Army Corps' Jennings Randolph Dam located on the 
Potomac River's North Branch in Maryland and West Virginia. The 
licensee for the Jennings Randolph Dam project was not able to commence 
construction by the already-extended deadline of April 2016. The bill 
would authorize FERC to extend for 6 years the date by which the 
licensee is required to commence construction.
  FERC has no objections to this legislation, and similar legislation 
passed the House by a 418-2 vote during the 114th Congress. I hope my 
colleagues will join me in supporting H.R. 2122, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, so I yield back 
the balance of my time.
  Ms. DeGETTE. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Michigan (Mr. Upton) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 2122.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



