

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 71 (Wednesday, April 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 71 (Wednesday, April 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2855-H2856]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         OPIOID EPIDEMIC FUNDING IN THE 21ST CENTURY CURES ACT

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Costello) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, last week, the U.S. 
Department of Health and Human Services announced the first round of 
grant funding for the 21st Century Cures Act.
  As a cosponsor and supporter of Cures and a Member who represents 
communities in Pennsylvania directly impacted by the opioid crisis, 
this was an encouraging and welcomed step toward combating this 
epidemic. This first round of funding will support prevention and 
treatment initiatives for those individuals in need.
  In particular, these resources will assist our local health centers 
that serve the uninsured or underinsured and are leading the fight on 
the front lines against this epidemic. This is one of many steps that 
will need to take place to combat this crisis.
  As the debate here in the House on efforts to improve health care 
continues, this announcement serves as a reminder of the positive and 
good we can do when we work together to deliver solutions that 
strengthen our communities. Moving forward, I will continue to work 
with my colleagues to advance and support policies to address addiction 
prevention and treatment.


      Congratulating Winners of 2017 Congressional Art Competition

  Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
congratulate students in Pennsylvania's Sixth Congressional District.
  Yesterday, my office was proud to announce the winners of the 2017 
Congressional Art Competition. As a member of the STEAM Caucus and a 
strong supporter of funding for the arts and humanities, I always 
encourage students across my district to participate in the 
competition.
  This year, Hannah from Conestoga High School, was awarded first place 
for her piece, entitled, ``Three Cranes''; second place went to Rachel 
from Henderson High School; third place was awarded to Elizabeth from 
Conestoga High School; and fourth place was awarded to Juliet from 
Phoenixville Area High School.
  The creativity displayed this year and every year by students from 
our community shows the depth of hard work and talent of our region's 
students. I congratulate and thank each student who submitted their 
work to the competition.


                              NIH Funding

  Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, during the recess period, 
I had the opportunity to host townhalls and meet with constituents to 
hear about the issues and concerns that matter to them.
  One of the recurring topics of concern that I kept hearing was about 
potential cuts to Federal medical research funding, in particular, NIH 
cuts from the President's skinny budget.
  We made great progress last Congress toward strengthening the NIH, 
most notably through passage of the 21st Century Cures Act. In addition 
to increasing funding, we have made positive structural changes to 
ensure that every dollar invested is being used effectively and 
efficiently.
  The NIH and medical research represent our best hope to find cures, 
improve care, and solve the diseases and conditions that affect 
millions of Americans. We should not reduce one penny of NIH funding, 
not one penny. The work and research of the NIH is simply too valuable.


                            Fentanyl Crisis

  Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, because of the fentanyl 
crisis we are facing, I have cosponsored the Synthetic Trafficking and 
Overdose Prevention Act, also known as the STOP Act. The bill aims to 
prevent synthetic drugs, such as fentanyl, from being shipped to the 
United States by drug traffickers.
  Illicitly produced synthetic opioids have strong associations with 
countries like China and India, where there

[[Page H2856]]

is little to no regulation, and fentanyl and its analogues are 
manufactured in both small- and large-scale production laboratories.
  The STOP Act would require foreign postal operators to send advanced 
electronic data to the USPS, the Postal Service, for packages imported 
into the United States. This would enable Customs and Border Protection 
and other agencies to target high-risk shipments for screening.
  This bill also gives the Postal Service more authority to scan 
arriving mail from places that are currently exempt from CBP protocol, 
helping to stop these packages from reaching U.S. borders in the first 
place. It is a vigilant Federal response, including the STOP Act, which 
is crucial to reversing the tide of addiction, helping to save lives in 
our community and across the country.


                               Burn Pits

  Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, burn pits, which are found 
on military bases, create substances that can be toxic. Tires, 
batteries, human waste, medical waste, and other garbage items are put 
into pits and set on fire, sometimes after being soaked with jet fuel. 
Burn pits were regularly used in Iraq and Afghanistan, so veterans of 
these wars are particularly at risk.
  My colleagues and I have introduced legislation that says, if a 
veteran does not have visible wounds, it is often difficult to provide 
the proof that VA needs to process a claim--but it shouldn't be that 
burdensome for a veteran who has sacrificed so much for our country--to 
get the treatment they need when they come home. There are many reports 
of veterans who believe their illness was caused by their exposure to 
burn pits who have not been able to get the VA to provide them with 
coverage.
  This epidemic is being compared to the major problem veterans who 
were exposed to Agent Orange had when they returned home from the 
Vietnam war, and we cannot let that happen again. So we have introduced 
legislation because veterans who are exposed to burn pits and 
subsequently have complications need to have the right diagnosis and 
treatment as soon as possible.
  This bill would create a Center of Excellence at the U.S. Department 
of Veterans Affairs, which would provide research to be able to 
properly address the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of these 
veterans. It is important the men and women who dedicate their lives to 
protecting our country can access the care they need when they return 
home.

                          ____________________



