

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 109 (Monday, June 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 109 (Monday, June 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5141]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              HONORING BRIGADIER GENERAL PATRICK D. FRANK

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Kansas (Mr. Marshall) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Brigadier General 
Patrick D. Frank, who is currently serving as the acting senior 
commander of the 1st Infantry Division in Fort Riley, but departing 
soon for a new post after serving in this capacity since October 2016.
  Brigadier General Frank was the first to welcome me as a new Member 
of Congress, and he and his wife, Jennifer, have always served as great 
ambassadors for the Big Red One.
  Thank you to the general and Jennifer for always making me, as well 
as my staff, feel so very welcome at Fort Riley.
  Brigadier General Frank has received numerous awards and served in 
multiple theaters, some of which include Operation Desert Storm, 
Operation Uphold Democracy in Haiti, and Operation Freedom's Sentinel.
  We commend him for his service to our Nation and wish him and 
Jennifer the best of luck and much success in his next post as deputy 
commander general of the Army Cadet Command at Fort Knox, Kentucky. He 
and Jennifer will certainly be missed at Fort Riley and in Kansas.


                       Enforcing Trade Agreements

  Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commend the Trump 
administration for their recent work on enforcement of trade 
agreements.
  Kansas is an export-dependent State. We supply food, feed, aircraft, 
and parts to countries all over the world.
  As I have traveled the State over the past 6 months, I have heard 
repeatedly that we must find ways to open new markets for United States 
producers, including Kansans.
  The good news is that this administration is focused on doing just 
that: opening new markets. The announcement that U.S. beef will be 
allowed back in China is a tremendous example. China is a $2.5 billion 
beef market, which the U.S. has been unfairly shut out of for 13 years. 
This bilateral success shows how serious the U.S. is about holding 
other countries accountable and that our negotiators are working on 
behalf of U.S. producers.
  Recent confirmation that the U.S. is continuing World Trade 
Organization cases against China's import barriers for wheat, corn, and 
rice is also welcome news for United States farmers. China has 
flagrantly violated their WTO commitments, costing U.S. producers 
billions in lost farm income as China put up import barriers and 
stockpiled surplus grains that are weighing on world markets.
  Our global rules-based trading system has brought tremendous benefits 
to American businesses, farmers, workers, and consumers. As global 
commerce has expanded, we have found that, when there is a free and 
level playing field, American producers can match any competitor.

                          ____________________



