

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5373-H5377]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. CARSON of Indiana:
       H.R. 3104. A bill to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     make grants to States to support the establishment and 
     operation of grocery stores in underserved communities, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. McGOVERN (for himself and Mr. King of New York):
       H.R. 3105. A bill to establish a Federal Task Force to 
     Support Grandparents Raising Grandchildren; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania (for himself, 
             Mr. Pallone, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Meehan, and Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick):
       H.R. 3106. A bill to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to 
     require the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
     Agency to publish a maximum contaminant level goal and 
     promulgate a national primary drinking water regulation for 
     perfluorinated compounds (including perfluorooctanesulfonic 
     acid and perfluorooctanoic acid), and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Reed, 
             Ms. Barragan, Mr. Messer, and Mr. Lowenthal):
       H.R. 3107. A bill to reauthorize the diesel emissions 
     reduction program; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. FARENTHOLD (for himself, Mr. Palazzo, and Mr. 
             Lowenthal):
       H.R. 3108. A bill to strengthen Federal consumer protection 
     and product traceability with respect to commercially 
     marketed seafood, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Agriculture, Natural Resources, and Ways and Means, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LaHOOD (for himself, Mr. Rush, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Quigley, 
             Mr. Roskam, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. 
             Krishnamoorthi, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Schneider, Mr. 
             Foster, Mr. Bost, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. 
             Hultgren, Mr. Shimkus, Mr. Kinzinger, Mrs. Bustos, 
             and Mr. Taylor):
       H.R. 3109. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 1114 North 2nd Street in 
     Chillicothe, Illinois, as the ``Sr. Chief Ryan Owens Post 
     Office Building''; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. HULTGREN (for himself, Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Clay, Mr. Royce of California, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Sherman, Mr. 
             Kildee, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Messer, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. 
             Pittenger, Mr. Poliquin, Mr. Ross, Mr. Trott, Mr. 
             Foster, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Zeldin, 
             Mr. Gottheimer, and Mr. Kihuen):
       H.R. 3110. A bill to amend the Financial Stability Act of 
     2010 to modify the term of the independent member of the 
     Financial Stability Oversight Council; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. LEVIN (for himself, Mr. Neal, Mr. Lewis of 
             Georgia, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Higgins of New York, Ms. 
             Sewell of Alabama, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. 
             Pascrell, and Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois):
       H.R. 3111. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for coverage of dental, vision, and 
     hearing care under the Medicare program; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.

[[Page H5374]]

  

           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas (for himself and Mr. Smith 
             of Nebraska):
       H.R. 3112. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to provide an option to claim a delayed retirement credit 
     in a partial lump sum, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania (for himself 
             and Mr. Crowley):
       H.R. 3113. A bill to require the chief election officials 
     of the States to provide voter registration forms at certain 
     naturalization proceedings, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. AMASH (for himself, Mr. Jordan, Mr. Burgess, Mr. 
             Brat, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. Buck, Mr. McClintock, Mr. 
             Massie, Mr. Labrador, and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 3114. A bill to abolish the Export-Import Bank of the 
     United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. NOLAN (for himself, Mr. Peterson, Mr. Emmer, Mr. 
             Tipton, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Lewis of Minnesota, Mr. 
             Westerman, Mr. McClintock, and Mr. Gosar):
       H.R. 3115. A bill to provide for a land exchange involving 
     Federal land in the Superior National Forest in Minnesota 
     acquired by the Secretary of Agriculture through the Weeks 
     Law, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER (for himself and Mr. Woodall):
       H.R. 3116. A bill to allow railroad employees to remain on 
     duty as necessary to clear a blockage of vehicular traffic at 
     grade crossings; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. JENKINS of West Virginia (for himself, Mr. 
             Culberson, Mr. McKinley, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Womack, Mr. 
             LaHood, Mr. Flores, Mr. Griffith, Mr. Bishop of Utah, 
             Mr. Cole, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Olson, and Mr. Mooney of 
             West Virginia):
       H.R. 3117. A bill to prohibit the Secretary of Energy, the 
     Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the 
     Secretary of the Interior, and the Chair of the Council on 
     Environmental Quality from considering the social cost of 
     carbon, the social cost of methane, or the social cost of 
     nitrous oxide, in taking any action, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DUNCAN of South Carolina (for himself, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Donovan, Mr. DeSantis, 
             Mrs. Torres, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. Schneider, Mr. Yoho, Mr. 
             Smith of New Jersey, and Mr. Ted Lieu of California):
       H.R. 3118. A bill to prevent further access of Iran and 
     Hizballah into the Western Hemisphere, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Financial Services, and the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. BEATTY (for herself, Ms. Bass, Mr. Conyers, Ms. 
             Esty of Connecticut, Mr. Evans, Mr. Khanna, Mr. 
             Kilmer, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Rush, Mr. Clay, Mr. Payne, 
             Ms. Rosen, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Wilson of Florida, 
             Mr. Smith of Washington, and Ms. Titus):
       H.R. 3119. A bill to amend the Elementary and Secondary 
     Education Act of 1965 to provide grants to local educational 
     agencies to encourage girls and underrepresented minorities 
     to pursue studies and careers in science, mathematics, 
     engineering, and technology; to the Committee on Education 
     and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BURGESS (for himself, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Tiberi, 
             and Mr. Thompson of California):
       H.R. 3120. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to reduce the volume of future electronic health 
     record-related significant hardship requests; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mrs. BUSTOS (for herself, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Pearce, 
             Mr. Courtney, Mr. Messer, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Ms. 
             Rosen, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Peters, Mr. 
             Evans, Ms. Meng, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Mr. Bera, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Kildee, Ms. Clark 
             of Massachusetts, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Ms. Norton, 
             Ms. Kaptur, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. Soto, 
             Mr. Crist, Mr. Butterfield, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. 
             Thompson of California, Mr. Walz, Mr. Foster, Mr. 
             Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, Mr. Moulton, and Mr. Kilmer):
       H.R. 3121. A bill to require the purchase of domestically 
     made flags of the United States of America for use by the 
     Federal Government; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Deutch, 
             Mr. Moulton, and Mr. Renacci):
       H.R. 3122. A bill to protect individuals who are eligible 
     for increased pension under laws administered by the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs on the basis of need of regular 
     aid and attendance from dishonest, predatory, or otherwise 
     unlawful practices, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Ms. Adams, Mr. Beyer, 
             Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. Butterfield, Ms. Clarke of 
             New York, Mr. Costa, Mrs. Dingell, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Jones, Mr. Langevin, Mr. 
             Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
             Soto, and Mr. Swalwell of California):
       H.R. 3123. A bill to award a Congressional gold medal, 
     collectively, to the First Rhode Island Regiment, in 
     recognition of their dedicated service during the 
     Revolutionary War; to the Committee on Financial Services, 
     and in addition to the Committee on House Administration, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. DeGETTE (for herself, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, Mr. 
             Reed, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Ben 
             Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Nolan, Ms. Norton, Ms. Roybal-
             Allard, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, 
             Mr. McGovern, and Mrs. Watson Coleman):
       H.R. 3124. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to reduce the occurrence of diabetes in Medicare 
     beneficiaries by extending coverage under Medicare for 
     medical nutrition therapy services to such beneficiaries with 
     pre-diabetes or with risk factors for developing type 2 
     diabetes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. DeLAURO:
       H.R. 3125. A bill to provide for the issuance of a 
     commemorative postage stamp in honor of Ebenezer D. Bassett, 
     the first African-American diplomat; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. DEUTCH:
       H.R. 3126. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide a credit to individuals for legal expenses 
     paid with respect to establishing guardianship of a family 
     member with disabilities; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH (for himself, Mr. McKinley, and Mr. 
             Jenkins of West Virginia):
       H.R. 3127. A bill to amend section 111 of the Clean Air Act 
     to exclude energy efficiency projects, pollution control 
     projects, and reliability projects from the definition of a 
     modification; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH (for himself, Mr. McKinley, and Mr. 
             Jenkins of West Virginia):
       H.R. 3128. A bill to amend section 111 of the Clean Air Act 
     to clarify when a physical change in, or change in the method 
     of operation of, a stationary source constitutes a 
     modification, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. HECK (for himself, Mrs. Noem, Mr. Cole, Mr. 
             Young of Alaska, Mr. Kilmer, Ms. Herrera Beutler, Ms. 
             DelBene, Mrs. Torres, and Mr. Kind):
       H.R. 3129. A bill to direct the Community Development 
     Financial Institutions Fund to perform an outreach program 
     for the new markets tax credit to underserved communities, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Financial Services, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself and Mr. DeSaulnier):
       H.R. 3130. A bill to amend the National and Community 
     Service Act of 1990 to promote active citizenship, including 
     volunteerism, community dialogue, and service, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, 
     and in addition to the Committees on Ways and Means, Energy 
     and Commerce, Foreign Affairs, and Veterans' Affairs, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HUIZENGA:
       H.R. 3131. A bill to amend the Endangered Species Act of 
     1973 to conform citizen suits under that Act with other 
     existing law, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia (for himself, Mrs. Torres, 
             Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. 
             Cohen, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Ms. Wilson 
             of Florida, Mr.

[[Page H5375]]

             Cicilline, Ms. Bass, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Raskin, Mr. Payne, Mr. Evans, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, and Ms. Castor of Florida):
       H.R. 3132. A bill to amend the Help America Vote Act of 
     2002 to promote accuracy, integrity, and security in the 
     administration of elections for Federal office, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on House Administration, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Science, Space, and Technology, 
     and the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana (for himself, Mr. Duncan of 
             South Carolina, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, Mr. 
             Abraham, Mr. Graves of Louisiana, and Mr. Jody B. 
             Hice of Georgia):
       H.R. 3133. A bill to amend the Marine Mammal Protection Act 
     of 1972 to reduce unnecessary permitting delays by clarifying 
     associated procedures to increase economic development and 
     support coastal restoration programs, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. KAPTUR (for herself, Mr. Clay, Mr. Evans, Mr. 
             Brady of Pennsylvania, Ms. Fudge, Ms. Jayapal, and 
             Ms. Pingree):
       H.R. 3134. A bill to direct Secretary of the Department of 
     Housing and Urban Development and the Director of Federal 
     Housing Finance Agency to develop a program to provide 
     assistance to creditworthy borrowers with Federal student 
     debt in purchasing certain foreclosed homes; to the Committee 
     on Financial Services.
           By Mr. KEATING (for himself and Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California):
       H.R. 3135. A bill to authorize the Administrator of the 
     Federal Emergency Management Agency to make grants to 
     consortia of States and communities to hire individuals to 
     coordinate the Community Rating System program under the 
     National Flood Insurance Program for the States and 
     communities who are members of the consortia, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself, Mr. Messer, Mr. Royce of 
             California, Mr. Neal, and Mr. Byrne):
       H.R. 3136. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to permit fellowship and stipend compensation to be 
     saved in an individual retirement account; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. KILDEE (for himself, Ms. Slaughter, and Mr. Ted 
             Lieu of California):
       H.R. 3137. A bill to amend the Carl D. Perkins Career and 
     Technical Education Act of 2006 to increase the participation 
     of women in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics 
     occupations; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. KIND (for himself, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, Ms. 
             DelBene, Mr. Reichert, Mr. LaMalfa, Mrs. Torres, and 
             Mr. Cole):
       H.R. 3138. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to treat Indian tribal governments in the same manner as 
     State governments for certain Federal tax purposes, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa (for himself, Mr. Banks of Indiana, 
             Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Massie, Mr. Buck, and Mr. 
             Gohmert):
       H.R. 3139. A bill to provide that silencers be treated the 
     same as firearms accessories; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LARSON of Connecticut (for himself, Ms. Adams, 
             Mr. Aguilar, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Ms. Barragan, Ms. 
             Bass, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Bera, Mr. Beyer, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Brendan 
             F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Brown of Maryland, Ms. Brownley of California, 
             Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Capuano, Mr. 
             Carbajal, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. Castro of 
             Texas, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. 
             Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. 
             Clay, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Clyburn, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Correa, Mr. Costa, Mr. 
             Courtney, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. Cummings, Mr. 
             Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. DeFazio, Ms. DeGette, 
             Mr. Delaney, Ms. DeLauro, Ms. DelBene, Mrs. Demings, 
             Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Deutch, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Michael 
             F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Mr. Evans, Mr. 
             Foster, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. 
             Gottheimer, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. 
             Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Gutierrez, 
             Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Higgins of New York, 
             Mr. Himes, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Jeffries, 
             Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Keating, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. 
             Khanna, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, 
             Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. Langevin, Mrs. 
             Lawrence, Ms. Lee, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Levin, Mr. 
             Lewis of Georgia, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. 
             Loebsack, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Lowenthal, Mrs. Lowey, Mr. 
             Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. Lynch, Mrs. Carolyn 
             B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, Ms. Matsui, Ms. McCollum, Mr. McEachin, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Meng, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Moulton, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Mr. 
             Nadler, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Neal, Mr. Norcross, Mr. 
             O'Rourke, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Payne, Mr. 
             Perlmutter, Mr. Peters, Mr. Peterson, Ms. Pingree, 
             Ms. Plaskett, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Price of North Carolina, 
             Mr. Quigley, Mr. Raskin, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. 
             Richmond, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. Rush, Mr. 
             Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Sablan, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Sarbanes, 
             Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Scott of Virginia, 
             Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Sewell 
             of Alabama, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Sires, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Mr. Soto, Ms. Speier, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mr. Takano, Mr. Thompson of California, 
             Ms. Titus, Mr. Tonko, Mrs. Torres, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. 
             Vargas, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Vela, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. 
             Walz, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Welch, Ms. 
             Wilson of Florida, and Mr. Yarmuth):
       H.R. 3140. A bill to establish a National and Community 
     Service Administration to carry out the national and 
     volunteer service programs, to expand participation in such 
     programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. LONG (for himself and Mr. Farenthold):
       H.R. 3141. A bill to require a Federal agency to include 
     language in certain educational and advertising materials 
     indicating that such materials are produced and disseminated 
     at taxpayer expense, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself, Mr. Jenkins of West 
             Virginia, and Mr. Delaney):
       H.R. 3142. A bill to establish the Appalachian Forest 
     National Heritage Area, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself and Mr. Jenkins of West 
             Virginia):
       H.R. 3143. A bill to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to 
     make certain strategic energy infrastructure projects 
     eligible for certain loan guarantees, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS (for herself, Ms. Herrera 
             Beutler, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. Schrader, and Mr. Walden):
       H.R. 3144. A bill to provide for operations of the Federal 
     Columbia River Power System pursuant to a certain operation 
     plan for a specified period of time, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MESSER (for himself, Mr. Polis, Mr. 
             Hollingsworth, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Paulsen, Mr. Banks 
             of Indiana, Ms. Sinema, and Mr. Hultgren):
       H.R. 3145. A bill to provide the legal framework and income 
     tax treatment necessary for the growth of innovative private 
     financing options, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Financial Services, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Ways and Means, Education and the Workforce, Armed Services, 
     and Veterans' Affairs, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia:
       H.R. 3146. A bill to direct the United States Trade 
     Representative to initiate negotiations with the Government 
     of the Republic of Turkey to seek to enter into a bilateral 
     free trade agreement with Turkey; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mrs. NOEM:
       H.R. 3147. A bill to amend the PROTECT Act to make Indian 
     tribes eligible for AMBER Alert grants; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. NOLAN (for himself and Ms. Wilson of Florida):

[[Page H5376]]

  

       H.R. 3148. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     provide for limitations on duty hours for yardmaster 
     employees, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. PASCRELL (for himself, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. 
             Fitzpatrick, and Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 3149. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide credits for the production of renewable 
     chemicals and investments in renewable chemical production 
     facilities, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. PERLMUTTER (for himself and Mr. Polis):
       H.R. 3150. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, 
     with respect to helicopter crash resistant fuel systems, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. POLIQUIN:
       H.R. 3151. A bill to amend the Food and Nutrition Act of 
     2008 to reduce waste, fraud, and abuse in the supplemental 
     nutrition assistance program; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture.
           By Mr. REICHERT (for himself, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Heck, 
             Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Kilmer, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. 
             DelBene, Mr. Smith of Washington, Ms. Jayapal, and 
             Mr. Larsen of Washington):
       H.R. 3152. A bill to require full spending of the Harbor 
     Maintenance Trust Fund, to provide for expanded uses of the 
     Fund, and to prevent cargo diversion, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RICE of South Carolina (for himself and Mr. 
             Kind):
       H.R. 3153. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide uniform standards for the use of electronic 
     signatures for third-party disclosure authorizations; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. RICHMOND (for himself, Mr. Jody B. Hice of 
             Georgia, and Mr. Conyers):
       H.R. 3154. A bill to amend the Inspector General Act of 
     1978 relative to the powers of the Department of Justice 
     Inspector General; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. SCHRADER (for himself, Mr. Walden, and Mr. 
             DeFazio):
       H.R. 3155. A bill to amend the Secure Rural Schools and 
     Community Self-Determination Act of 2000 to modify the 
     authorized uses of certain county funds and to extend the 
     deadline for participating counties to initiate projects and 
     obligate funds; to the Committee on Agriculture, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Natural Resources, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SOTO:
       H.R. 3156. A bill to establish the Water Science Centers 
     within the United States Geological Survey; to the Committee 
     on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. SUOZZI:
       H.R. 3157. A bill to improve the handling of instances of 
     sexual harassment, dating violence, domestic violence, sexual 
     assault, and stalking at the United States Merchant Marine 
     Academy and for other purposes; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services, and in addition to the Committees on Education and 
     the Workforce, and Transportation and Infrastructure, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. TAKANO:
       H.R. 3158. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the authorities of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     to hire, recruit, and train employees of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and Energy and Commerce, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of California:
       H.R. 3159. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to reduce the taxable estate by the value of certain 
     family-owned business interests; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California (for herself, Mr. 
             Ellison, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Heck, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Ms. Moore, and Mr. Al Green of Texas):
       H.R. 3160. A bill to transform neighborhoods of extreme 
     poverty by reforming the public housing demolition and 
     disposition rules to require one-for-one replacement and 
     tenant protections, and to provide public housing agencies 
     with additional resources and flexibility to preserve public 
     housing units, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. WELCH (for himself, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, 
             and Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire):
       H.R. 3161. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to include biomass heating appliances for tax credits 
     available for energy-efficient building property and energy 
     property; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. MURPHY of Florida (for herself, Mr. Cooper, Ms. 
             Sinema, Mr. Correa, Mr. Schrader, and Mr. Costa):
       H.J. Res. 107. A joint resolution proposing a balanced 
     budget amendment to the Constitution of the United States; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself, Mr. Takano, Mr. 
             Pocan, Ms. Norton, Mr. Conyers, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. 
             Norcross, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Courtney, Ms. DeLauro, 
             Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Levin, Mr. Swalwell of California, 
             Mr. Pallone, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Crowley, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. 
             Jeffries, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Polis, Mr. 
             Heck, Mr. Cummings, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Gutierrez, and 
             Ms. Adams):
       H. Con. Res. 68. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of Congress that the overtime rule published in the Federal 
     Register by the Secretary of Labor on May 23, 2016, would 
     provide millions of workers with greater economic security 
     and was a legally valid exercise of the authority of the 
     Secretary under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Sherman, Mr. 
             Yoho, and Mr. Smith of New Jersey):
       H. Res. 422. A resolution urging adherence to the ``one 
     country, two systems'' policy as prescribed in the Joint 
     Declaration between the Government of the United Kingdom of 
     Great Britain and the Government of the People's Republic of 
     China on the Question of the Hong Kong; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. BROWN of Maryland (for himself, Mr. Beyer, Ms. 
             Blunt Rochester, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Costa, Mr. Cummings, Mr. 
             Delaney, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Evans, Mr. Al 
             Green of Texas, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. 
             Hanabusa, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Norton, Mr. Hoyer, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Johnson 
             of Georgia, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mrs. 
             Lawrence, Ms. Lee, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Ms. Lofgren, 
             Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Sean 
             Patrick Maloney of New York, Ms. Moore, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Payne, Mr. Peters, Ms. 
             Plaskett, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Raskin, Mr. 
             Richmond, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. Rush, Mr. Sarbanes, 
             Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. Slaughter, 
             Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, 
             Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Wilson of Florida, and Ms. 
             Bass):
       H. Res. 423. A resolution condemning in the strongest terms 
     the unprovoked and racially motivated murder of Lt. Richard 
     W. Collins III in College Park, Maryland, on May 20, 2017, 
     expressing concern for the rising tide of racist and hate-
     based activities being committed on our college campuses, and 
     reaffirming our support for inclusion, diversity, and safety 
     in our higher education institutions in the wake of these 
     attacks; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO (for himself, Mr. Shuster, Mr. Larsen of 
             Washington, and Mr. LoBiondo):
       H. Res. 424. A resolution congratulating the National Air 
     Traffic Controllers Association (in this resolution referred 
     to as ``NATCA'') on the celebration of its 30th anniversary 
     and recognizing its members' vital contributions to the 
     United States and our National Airspace System; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. ESPAILLAT (for himself, Mr. Nadler, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Jeffries, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. 
             Crowley, Mr. Meeks, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New 
             York, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Meng, and Mr. Engel):
       H. Res. 425. A resolution supporting the protection of the 
     name Harlem; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Mr. Polis, Mr. Vargas, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. Pocan, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. 
             Lipinski, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Correa, Ms. 
             Lee, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Takano, Ms. Clarke of New 
             York, Mr. Payne, Mr. Norcross, Mrs. Torres, Mr. Scott 
             of Virginia, Mr. Peters, Mr. Gallego, Ms. Lofgren, 
             Mr. Panetta, and Ms. Titus):
       H. Res. 426. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the Secretary of Defense should 
     review section 504 of title 10, United States Code, for 
     purposes related to enlisting certain aliens in the Armed 
     Forces; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia:
       H. Res. 427. A resolution protecting Religious Freedom in 
     America; to the Committee on the Judiciary.

[[Page H5377]]

  

           By Mr. MURPHY of Pennsylvania (for himself, Mr. 
             Butterfield, Ms. Norton, Mr. Garrett, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Smith of Washington, 
             Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. Tonko, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Deutch, Ms. Pingree, Ms. Eshoo, 
             Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Meehan, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. 
             Kind, Mr. Peters, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Khanna, Mr. 
             Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. Payne, Mr. Evans, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mrs. Comstock, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
             Young of Alaska, Miss Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto Rico, 
             Mr. Moulton, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Donovan, Mr. King of 
             New York, Mr. Connolly, Mrs. Mimi Walters of 
             California, Mr. Kilmer, and Mr. Lance):
       H. Res. 428. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of ``National Eating Disorders Awareness Week'' 
     and supporting the goals and ideals to raise awareness and 
     understanding of eating disorders; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. NOLAN:
       H. Res. 429. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives regarding the need for Congress to have 
     the power to implement and enforce limits on when money can 
     be spent on campaign activities, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on House Administration.

                          ____________________



