

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 119 (Friday, July 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 119 (Friday, July 14, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5884-H5885]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. McGOVERN:
       H.R. 3241. A bill to require the Federal Energy Regulatory 
     Commission to consider greenhouse gas emissions related to 
     natural gas pipelines, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. HARTZLER:
       H.R. 3242. A bill to expand access to the Rural Community 
     Facilities Program of the Department of Agriculture, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself, Mr. Issa, Mr. Meadows, 
             and Ms. Kelly of Illinois):
       H.R. 3243. A bill to amend title 40, United States Code, to 
     eliminate the sunset of certain provisions relating to 
     information technology, to amend the National Defense 
     Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 to extend the sunset 
     relating to the Federal Data Center Consolidation Initiative, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. MEADOWS (for himself, Mr. Jody B. Hice of 
             Georgia, and Mr. Connolly):
       H.R. 3244. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     provide for annual surveys of Federal employees, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself and Ms. Castor of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 3245. A bill to amend title XI of the Social Security 
     Act to increase civil money penalties and criminal fines for 
     Federal health care program fraud and abuse, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Miss RICE of New York (for herself and Ms. 
             Stefanik):
       H.R. 3246. A bill to amend the Elementary and Secondary 
     Education Act of 1965 to establish a Teacher Advisory 
     Committee and a Parents and Families Advisory Committee; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BERA:
       H.R. 3247. A bill to direct the President to develop and 
     submit to Congress a strategy to protect United States 
     interests in the Arctic region, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Foreign Affairs, Energy and 
     Commerce, Science, Space, and Technology, and Natural 
     Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. 
             Bordallo, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Connolly, 
             Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Lowenthal, 
             Mr. McGovern, Ms. Norton, Mr. Peters, Ms. Pingree, 
             Mr. Polis, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Takano, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Tsongas, Ms. Velazquez, 
             Mr. Welch, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, 
             and Mr. Huffman):
       H.R. 3248. A bill to encourage water efficiency; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Oversight and Government Reform, Armed 
     Services, and Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mrs. COMSTOCK:
       H.R. 3249. A bill to authorize the Project Safe 
     Neighborhoods Grant Program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CROWLEY (for himself, Mr. Nadler, Ms. Velazquez, 
             Mr. Espaillat, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Tonko, Mr. 
             Serrano, and Mr. Jeffries):
       H.R. 3250. A bill to provide aliens who performed rescue, 
     recovery, demolition, debris cleanup, or other related 
     services after the September 11 terrorist attacks an 
     opportunity to adjust their status to that of an alien 
     lawfully admitted for permanent residence, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FORTENBERRY (for himself and Mr. Huffman):
       H.R. 3251. A bill to amend the National Trails System Act 
     to include national discovery trails and to designate the 
     American Discovery Trail, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. FOSTER:
       H.R. 3252. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to authorize certain students in retain financial aid 
     eligibility while completing a drug rehabilitation program; 
     to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. LOEBSACK:
       H.R. 3253. A bill to provide for the health coverage of 
     Members of Congress to be affected if the rate of individuals 
     without health insurance increases; to the Committee on House 
     Administration, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, Energy and Commerce, and 
     Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico (for 
             herself and Mr. Cicilline):
       H.R. 3254. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code to 
     impose an excise tax on opioid manufacturers, to make the 
     funds collected through such tax available for opioid 
     (including heroin) abuse prevention and treatment programs, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     and in addition to the Committees on Energy and Commerce, and 
     the Budget, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself, 
             Ms. Norton, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, 
             Mr. Lowenthal, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Cooper, Mr. 
             Levin, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Khanna, Ms. 
             Lofgren, and Mr. Connolly):
       H.R. 3255. A bill to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
     1938 regarding reasonable break time for nursing mothers; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself, Mr. Newhouse, Ms. 
             DeGette, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Collins of New York, and Mr. 
             Loebsack):
       H.R. 3256. A bill to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to 
     extend the eligibility for certain hydroelectric production 
     and efficiency incentives; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. ROKITA (for himself, Mr. Brat, Mr. Loudermilk, 
             and Mr. Smith of Missouri):
       H.R. 3257. A bill to provide certain reforms to promote 
     accountability and efficiency in the civil service, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. RUIZ:
       H.R. 3258. A bill to amend the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act to improve cost sharing subsidies; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Ms. Rosen, Mr. Moulton, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mr. Evans, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Engel, Mr. 
             Raskin, Mr. Himes, Mr. Khanna, Ms. Hanabusa, and Mr. 
             Walz):
       H.R. 3259. A bill to prohibit the use of Federal funds for 
     the establishment or support of a cybersecurity unit with the 
     Russian Federation, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of California:
       H.R. 3260. A bill to provide passengers in air 
     transportation with certain rights; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mrs. TORRES (for herself, Mrs. Wagner, and Mr. 
             Evans):
       H.R. 3261. A bill to direct the Director of National 
     Intelligence to produce a national intelligence estimate of 
     the revenue sources of the North Korean regime, and for other

[[Page H5885]]

     purposes; to the Committee on Intelligence (Permanent 
     Select).
           By Ms. JAYAPAL (for herself and Mr. Cicilline):
       H. Res. 446. A resolution of inquiry requesting the 
     President and directing the Attorney General to transmit, 
     respectively, certain documents to the House of 
     Representatives relating to the removal of former Federal 
     Bureau of Investigation Director James Comey; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN (for herself, Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi, Mr. Payne, Mrs. Demings, Ms. Barragan, 
             and Mr. Langevin):
       H. Res. 447. A resolution directing the Secretary of 
     Homeland Security to transmit certain documents to the House 
     of Representatives relating to Department of Homeland 
     Security policies and activities relating to businesses owned 
     or controlled by President Donald J. Trump; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. CORREA (for himself, Mr. Lowenthal, Mrs. Murphy 
             of Florida, Ms. Lofgren, Mrs. Comstock, and Mr. 
             McGovern):
       H. Res. 448. A resolution recognizing the accomplishments 
     and the contributions of Vietnamese Americans; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, and 
             Ms. Bass):
       H. Res. 449. A resolution urging the Government of Kenya 
     and Kenya's political parties to respect democratic 
     principles and hold credible, peaceful, and transparent 
     elections in August 2017; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. NOLAN:
       H. Res. 450. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives regarding the power of Congress to protect 
     the right to vote; to the Committee on House Administration.

                          ____________________



