

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 111 (Wednesday, June 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 111 (Wednesday, June 28, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3830-S3831]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 256

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 256, a bill to establish 
the Stop, Observe, Ask, and Respond to Health and Wellness Training 
pilot program to address human trafficking in the health care system.


                                 S. 298

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 298, a bill to 
require Senate candidates to file designations, statements, and reports 
in electronic form.


                                 S. 528

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 528, a bill to amend the 
Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 to provide leave because of the 
death of a son or daughter.


                                 S. 681

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 681, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to improve the benefits and services 
provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs to women veterans, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 705

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. Schumer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 705, a bill to amend the 
National Child Protection Act of 1993 to establish a national criminal 
history background check system and criminal history review program for 
certain individuals who, related to their employment, have access to 
children, the elderly, or individuals with disabilities, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1024

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1024, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to reform the rights and processes relating to 
appeals of decisions regarding claims for benefits under the laws 
administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1152

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1152, a bill to create 
protections for depository institutions that

[[Page S3831]]

provide financial services to cannabis-related businesses, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1158

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1158, a bill to help prevent 
acts of genocide and other atrocity crimes, which threaten national and 
international security, by enhancing United States Government 
capacities to prevent, mitigate, and respond to such crises.


                                S. 1197

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1197, a bill to 
waive the 24-month waiting period for Medicare eligibility for 
individuals disabled by Huntington's disease.


                                S. 1201

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1201, a bill to allow 
individuals living in areas without qualified health plans offered 
through an Exchange to have similar access to health insurance coverage 
as Members of Congress and congressional staff.


                                S. 1312

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1312, a bill to prioritize 
the fight against human trafficking in the United States.


                                S. 1318

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1318, a bill to 
protect the rights of passengers with disabilities in air 
transportation, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1320

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1320, a bill to reform 
apportionments to general aviation airports under the airport 
improvement program, to improve project delivery at certain airports, 
and to designate certain airports as disaster relief airports, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1323

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1323, a bill to preserve 
United States fishing heritage through a national program dedicated to 
training and assisting the next generation of commercial fishermen, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1361

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1361, a bill 
to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to allow physician 
assistants, nurse practitioners, and clinical nurse specialists to 
supervise cardiac, intensive cardiac, and pulmonary rehabilitation 
programs.


                                S. 1393

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1393, a bill to streamline the process by 
which active duty military, reservists, and veterans receive commercial 
driver's licenses.


                                S. 1426

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr. 
Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1426, a bill to amend the Ted 
Stevens Olympic and Amateur Sports Act to expand the purposes of the 
corporation, to designate the United States Center for Safe Sport, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1432

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1432, a bill to prevent 
the Federal Aviation Administration's Aircraft Registry Office from 
closing during a Government shutdown.


                                S. 1441

  At the request of Mr. Sanders, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1441, a bill to provide 
funding for Federally Qualified Health Centers, the National Health 
Service Corps, Teaching Health Centers, and the Nurse Practitioner 
Residency Training program.


                              S.J. RES. 5

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Ms. Cantwell) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 5, a joint 
resolution removing the deadline for the ratification of the equal 
rights amendment.


                             S. CON. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 6, a 
concurrent resolution supporting the Local Radio Freedom Act.


                               S. RES. 54

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 54, a 
resolution expressing the unwavering commitment of the United States to 
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.


                              S. RES. 168

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 168, a resolution 
supporting respect for human rights and encouraging inclusive 
governance in Ethiopia.

                          ____________________



