

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 95 (Monday, June 5, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 95 (Monday, June 5, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3242-S3244]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 122

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 122, a bill to prevent 
homeowners from being forced to pay taxes on forgiven mortgage loan 
debt.


                                 S. 200

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 200, a bill to prohibit the 
conduct of a first-use nuclear strike absent a declaration of war by 
Congress.


                                 S. 203

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 203, a bill to reaffirm 
that the Environmental Protection Agency may not regulate vehicles used 
solely for competition, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, a bill to award 
the Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his 
heroic achievements and courageous contributions to peace in the Middle 
East.


                                 S. 292

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the names of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) and the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 292, a bill to maximize discovery, and accelerate 
development and availability, of promising childhood cancer treatments, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 301

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 301, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to prohibit governmental discrimination 
against providers of health services that are not involved in abortion.


                                 S. 339

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from California 
(Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 339, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to repeal the requirement for reduction of 
survivor annuities under the Survivor Benefit Plan by veterans' 
dependency and indemnity compensation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 375

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) was added as a cosponsor of S. 375, a bill to amend the 
Endangered Species Act of 1973 to establish a procedure for approval of 
certain settlements.


                                 S. 376

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) was added as a cosponsor of S. 376, a bill to amend the 
Endangered Species Act of 1973 to require

[[Page S3243]]

publication on the Internet of the basis for determinations that 
species are endangered species or threatened species, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. 
Warren) were added as cosponsors of S. 407, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the railroad track 
maintenance credit.


                                 S. 459

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 459, a bill to designate 
the area between the intersections of Wisconsin Avenue, Northwest and 
Davis Street, Northwest and Wisconsin Avenue, Northwest and Edmunds 
Street, Northwest in Washington, District of Columbia, as ``Boris 
Nemtsov Plaza'', and for other purposes.


                                 S. 486

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) and the Senator from Minnesota (Mr. Franken) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 486, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to provide for the non-application of Medicare 
competitive acquisition rates to complex rehabilitative wheelchairs and 
accessories.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare 
coverage of certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of 
durable medical equipment.


                                 S. 534

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 534, a bill to 
prevent the sexual abuse of minors and amateur athletes by requiring 
the prompt reporting of sexual abuse to law enforcement authorities, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the names of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Heinrich) and the Senator from Florida (Mr. Rubio) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 540, a bill to limit the authority of States to tax 
certain income of employees for employment duties performed in other 
States.


                                 S. 569

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 569, a bill to amend 
title 54, United States Code, to provide consistent and reliable 
authority for, and for the funding of, the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund to maximize the effectiveness of the Fund for future generations, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cruz), the Senator from West Virginia (Mr. Manchin) and the 
Senator from Alabama (Mr. Strange) were added as cosponsors of S. 720, 
a bill to amend the Export Administration Act of 1979 to include in the 
prohibitions on boycotts against allies of the United States boycotts 
fostered by international governmental organizations against Israel and 
to direct the Export-Import Bank of the United States to oppose 
boycotts against Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 766

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 766, a bill to amend 
titles 10 and 32, United States Code, to improve and enhance 
authorities relating to the employment, use, status, and benefits of 
military technicians (dual status), and for other purposes.


                                 S. 774

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 774, a bill to 
address the psychological, developmental, social, and emotional needs 
of children, youth, and families who have experienced trauma, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 782

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) was added as a cosponsor of S. 782, a bill to 
reauthorize the National Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force 
Program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 882

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 882, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to provide for the entitlement to educational 
assistance under the Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Program of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs for members of the Armed Forces awarded 
the Purple Heart, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 888

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from New 
York (Mrs. Gillibrand), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons), the 
Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) and the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added as cosponsors of S. 888, a bill 
to amend the Higher Education Opportunity Act to add disclosure 
requirements to the institution financial aid offer form and to amend 
the Higher Education Act of 1965 to make such form mandatory.


                                 S. 889

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from 
Virginia (Mr. Kaine) and the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 889, a bill to amend the Higher Education Act 
of 1965 to make technical improvements to the Net Price Calculator 
system so that prospective students may have a more accurate 
understanding of the true cost of college.


                                 S. 910

  At the request of Mr. Schumer, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) and the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 910, a bill to prohibit discrimination 
against individuals with disabilities who need long-term services and 
supports, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 915

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 915, a bill to amend 
title II of the Social Security Act to repeal the Government pension 
offset and windfall elimination provisions.


                                 S. 926

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the names of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) and the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 926, a bill to authorize the Global War on Terror 
Memorial Foundation to establish the National Global War on Terrorism 
Memorial as a commemorative work in the District of Columbia, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1027

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders), the Senator from Minnesota (Mr. Franken) and the Senator 
from Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill) were added as cosponsors of S. 1027, a 
bill to extend the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-
Determination Act of 2000.


                                S. 1057

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1057, a bill to amend the Harmful 
Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and Control Act of 1998 to address 
harmful algal blooms, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1094

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1094, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to improve the accountability of employees of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt), the Senator from Utah (Mr. Hatch), the Senator from 
Indiana (Mr. Donnelly) and the Senator from Maine (Ms. Collins) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1094, supra.


                                S. 1112

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1112, a bill to 
support States in their work to save and sustain the health of mothers 
during pregnancy, childbirth, and in the postpartum period, to 
eliminate disparities in maternal health outcomes for pregnancy-related 
and pregnancy-associated deaths, to identify solutions to improve 
health care quality and health outcomes for mothers, and for other 
purposes.

[[Page S3244]]

  



                                S. 1114

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1114, a bill to 
nullify the effect of the recent Executive order laying a foundation 
for discrimination against LGBTQ individuals, women, religious 
minorities, and others under the pretext of religious freedom.


                                S. 1186

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1186, a bill to authorize 
the Secretary of Transportation to designate certain entities as 
centers of excellence for domestic maritime workforce training and 
education, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1191

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Warner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1191, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to refine how Medicare pays for 
orthotics and prosthetics and to improve beneficiary experience and 
outcomes with orthotic and prosthetic care, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1278

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1278, a bill to provide for 
the admission of the State of Washington, D.C. into the Union.


                              S.J. RES. 40

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 40, a joint resolution to 
provide limitations on the transfer of air-to-ground munitions from the 
United States to Saudi Arabia.


                              S. RES. 114

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 114, a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate on humanitarian crises in Nigeria, 
Somalia, South Sudan, and Yemen.


                              S. RES. 168

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 168, a resolution 
supporting respect for human rights and encouraging inclusive 
governance in Ethiopia.


                              S. RES. 174

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the names of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) and the Senator from Maine (Ms. Collins) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 174, a resolution recognizing the 100th 
anniversary of Lions Clubs International and celebrating the Lions 
Clubs International for a long history of humanitarian service.


                              S. RES. 176

  At the request of Mr. Schumer, the names of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker), the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) and the 
Senator from Maryland (Mr. Cardin) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 
176, a resolution commemorating the 50th anniversary of the 
reunification of Jerusalem.
  At the request of Mr. McConnell, the names of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mr. Grassley), the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Cassidy), the Senator 
from Missouri (Mr. Blunt), the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman), the 
Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy), the Senator from North Carolina 
(Mr. Tillis), the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Shelby), the Senator from 
Maine (Ms. Collins), the Senator from Alabama (Mr. Strange), the 
Senator from Nebraska (Mrs. Fischer), the Senator from South Carolina 
(Mr. Scott), the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Isakson), the Senator from 
Kansas (Mr. Roberts), the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. Ernst), the Senator 
from Montana (Mr. Daines), the Senator from Texas (Mr. Cornyn), the 
Senator from Texas (Mr. Cruz), the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Young), 
the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Perdue), the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Wicker), the Senator from Utah (Mr. Hatch), the Senator from 
Arizona (Mr. Flake), the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Cochran), the 
Senator from West Virginia (Mr. Manchin), the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Portman) and the Senator from Nebraska (Mr. Sasse) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 176, supra.


                              S. RES. 179

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 179, a resolution 
expressing support for the designation of June 2, 2017, as ``National 
Gun Violence Awareness Day'' and June 2017 as ``National Gun Violence 
Awareness Month''.

                          ____________________



