

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2615-S2616]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Booker, Mr. Casey, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. 
             Franken, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Harris, Ms. Hassan, Ms. 
             Hirono, Mr. Markey, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Sanders, Mr. 
             Schatz, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Warren, and 
             Mr. Wyden):
       S. 954. A bill to prevent harassment at institutions of 
     higher education, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Ms. Warren, Ms. 
             Baldwin, Mr. Booker, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Reed, Mr. 
             Merkley, Mr. Markey, Mr. Franken, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. 
             Hassan, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. 
             Klobuchar, Mr. Durbin, Ms. Duckworth, and Mrs. 
             Feinstein):
       S. 955. A bill to ensure high-income earners pay a fair 
     share of Federal taxes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself and Mr. Kennedy):
       S. 956. A bill to amend the Outer Continental Shelf Lands 
     Act to limit the authority of the President to withdraw areas 
     from oil and gas leasing, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Bennet, 
             Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Booker, Mr. Brown, Ms. Cantwell, 
             Mr. Cardin, Mr. Coons, Ms. Cortez Masto, Mr. Durbin, 
             Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Franken, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. 
             Harris, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Heinrich, Ms. Hirono, Ms. 
             Klobuchar, Mr. Markey, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Merkley, Mr. 
             Murphy, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Reed, Mr. Sanders, Ms. 
             Stabenow, Mr. Tester, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Warren, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Kaine, and Mr. Peters):
       S. 957. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     ensure that women members of the Armed Forces and their 
     families have access to the contraception they need in order 
     to promote the health and readiness of all members of the 
     Armed Forces, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Markey, Mr. 
             Merkley, and Mr. Carper):
       S. 958. A bill to authorize Federal agencies to establish 
     prize competitions for innovation or adaptation management 
     development relating to coral reef ecosystems, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. Brown, Mrs. Feinstein, 
             Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Sanders, Ms. 
             Warren, Mr. Whitehouse, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Schatz, Mr. 
             Leahy, and Mr. Nelson):
       S. 959. A bill to restore protections for Social Security, 
     Railroad retirement, and Black Lung benefits from 
     administrative offset; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr. Gardner):
       S. 960. A bill to amend title 44, United States Code, to 
     protect open, machine-readable databases; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. YOUNG:
       S. 961. A bill to develop a database of projects that are 
     proven or promising in terms of moving welfare recipients 
     into work; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and Mr. Daines):
       S. 962. A bill to establish a grant program to support 
     landscape-scale restoration and management, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
     Forestry.
           By Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mr. Bennet, Ms. Collins, and 
             Mr. Booker):
       S. 963. A bill to encourage and support partnerships 
     between the public and private sectors to improve our 
     Nation's social programs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and Mr. Udall):
       S. 964. A bill to protect broadband users from unfair or 
     deceptive practices relating to privacy or data security, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
     and Transportation.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and Mr. Markey):
       S. 965. A bill to improve passenger vessel security and 
     safety, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr. Portman):
       S. 966. A bill to establish a program to accurately 
     document vehicles that were significant in the history of the 
     United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr. Roberts, Mr. Leahy, 
             Ms. Collins, and Mr. Schumer):
       S. 967. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to increase access to ambulance services under the 
     Medicare program and to reform payments for such services 
     under such program, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Finance.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and Mr. Grassley):
       S. 968. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     designate certain medical facilities of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs as health professional shortage areas, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Ms. Collins, Mr. Kaine, 
             Mr. Markey, Mr. Van Hollen, and Ms. Warren):
       S. 969. A bill to amend the Elementary and Secondary 
     Education Act of 1965 to expand the military student 
     identifier program to cover students with a parent who serves 
     in the reserve component of the Armed Forces; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and Mr. Tillis):
       S. 970. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the care provided by the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to newborn children; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. THUNE:
       S. 971. A bill to require the Administrator of the 
     Environmental Protection Agency to include in each regulatory 
     impact analysis for a proposed or final rule an analysis that 
     does not include any other proposed or unimplemented rule; to 
     the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mr. Rubio, and Mr. Perdue):
       S. 972. A bill to promote democracy and the rule of law on 
     Nicaragua, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. ALEXANDER (for himself and Mr. Corker):
       S. 973. A bill to designate as wilderness certain public 
     land in the Cherokee National Forest in the State of 
     Tennessee, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. LEAHY (for himself, Mr. Grassley, Ms. Klobuchar, 
             Mr. Lee, Mrs. Feinstein, Mrs. McCaskill, Ms. Collins, 
             Mr. McCain, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. 
             Cotton, and Mr. Durbin):
       S. 974. A bill to promote competition in the market for 
     drugs and biological products by facilitating the timely 
     entry of lower-cost generic and biosimilar versions of those 
     drugs and biological products; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Barrasso, 
             and Mr. Tester):
       S. 975. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to permanently extend the Indian coal production tax credit; 
     to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. ENZI (for himself, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Alexander, 
             Ms. Heitkamp, Ms. Warren, Mr. Reed, Mr. Whitehouse, 
             Mr. Warner, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Markey, Mr. 
             Blunt, Mr. Rounds, Ms. Duckworth, and Ms. Collins):
       S. 976. A bill to restore States' sovereign rights to 
     enforce State and local sales and use tax laws, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr. Heller):
       S. 977. A bill to permit occupational therapists to conduct 
     the initial assessment visit and complete the comprehensive 
     assessment under a Medicare home health plan of care for 
     certain rehabilitation cases; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. MURRAY:
       S. 978. A bill to direct the Secretary of Education to 
     establish an award program recognizing excellence exhibited 
     by public school system employees providing services to 
     students in prekindergarten through higher education; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.

[[Page S2616]]

  

           By Mr. BENNET:
       S. 979. A bill for the relief of Arturo Hernandez-Garcia; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. CAPITO (for herself, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Franken, 
             and Mrs. Gillibrand):
       S. 980. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for payments for certain rural health clinic 
     and Federally qualified health center services furnished to 
     hospice patients under the Medicare program; to the Committee 
     on Finance.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and Mr. Hoeven):
       S. 981. A bill to require the Secretary of Energy to 
     establish an energy efficiency materials pilot program; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CASEY:
       S. 982. A bill to amend the Child Abuse Prevention and 
     Treatment Act to require mandatory reporting of incidents of 
     child abuse or neglect, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Ms. Duckworth):
       S. 983. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to modify the work opportunity credit for certain youth 
     employees, and to extend empowerment zones; to the Committee 
     on Finance.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Ms. Duckworth):
       S. 984. A bill to amend the Workforce Innovation and 
     Opportunity Act to provide funding, on a competitive basis, 
     for summer and year-round employment opportunities for youth 
     ages 14 through 24; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr. Menendez, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Mr. Booker, Mr. Blumenthal, Mrs. 
             Feinstein, Mr. Sanders, Ms. Hassan, Mrs. Murray, Mr. 
             Franken, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. Warren, Mr. Cardin, Mrs. 
             Gillibrand, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Reed, Mr. 
             Merkley, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Harris, and Mr. Leahy):
       S. 985. A bill to prohibit the Secretary of the Interior 
     from revising the approved oil and gas leasing program for 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2022; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr. Booker, Mr. Carper, 
             and Mr. Coons):
       S. 986. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to permit hospitals in all-urban States to be considered 
     Medicare dependent hospitals, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Markey, 
             and Mr. Booker):
       S. 987. A bill to transition away from fossil fuel sources 
     of energy to 100 percent clean and renewable energy by 2050, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr. Roberts):
       S. 988. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to make qualified biogas property and qualified manure 
     resource recovery property eligible for the energy credit and 
     to permit new clean renewable energy bonds to finance 
     qualified biogas property, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.

                          ____________________



