

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4502-H4503]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. HUNTER (for himself, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Shuster, 
             and Mr. DeFazio):
       H.R. 2593. A bill to authorize appropriations for the 
     Federal Maritime Commission for fiscal years 2018 and 2019, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself, Mrs. Murphy of 
             Florida, and Mr. Knight):
       H.R. 2594. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     provide interim partial payment to small business contractors 
     that request an equitable adjustment due to a change in the 
     terms of a construction contract, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Small Business.
           By Ms. SPEIER (for herself and Mr. Woodall):
       H.R. 2595. A bill to direct the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to provide for an option under the Secure Mail 
     Initiative under which a person to whom a document is sent 
     under that initiative may elect to have the United States 
     Postal Service use the Hold for Pickup service or the 
     Signature Confirmation service in delivering the document, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. O'ROURKE (for himself, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Vela, Ms. 
             Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Castro of Texas, 
             Mr. Cuellar, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. Gene Green of 
             Texas, Mr. Doggett, and Mr. Gonzalez of Texas):
       H.R. 2596. A bill to designate the Castner Range in the 
     State of Texas, to establish the Castner Range National 
     Monument, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, and in addition to the Committee on Armed 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself, Mr. Payne, Mr. Serrano, 
             and Ms. Clarke of New York):
       H.R. 2597. A bill to extend temporary protected status for 
     certain nationals of Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea until 
     November 21, 2018; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CARBAJAL (for himself, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, 
             and Mr. Beyer):
       H.R. 2598. A bill to provide family members of an 
     individual who they fear is a danger to himself, herself, or 
     others new tools to prevent gun violence; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania (for himself and Mr. 
             Thompson of California):
       H.R. 2599. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to refine how Medicare pays for orthotics and 
     prosthetics and to improve beneficiary experience and 
     outcomes with orthotic and prosthetic care, and for

[[Page H4503]]

     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Iowa:
       H.R. 2600. A bill to provide for the conveyance to the 
     State of Iowa of the reversionary interest held by the United 
     States in certain land in Pottawattamie County, Iowa, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. DUNN (for himself, Mr. Correa, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Banks of Indiana, Miss Gonzalez-
             Colon of Puerto Rico, Mr. Rutherford, Mrs. Radewagen, 
             Mr. Poliquin, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Bost, Mr. Bacon, Mr. 
             Royce of California, Mr. Gallagher, Mr. Ross, Mr. 
             Bilirakis, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. Sablan, 
             Mr. Bergman, Mr. Hudson, and Mr. Arrington):
       H.R. 2601. A bill to amend the Veterans Access, Choice, and 
     Accountability Act of 2014 to improve the access of veterans 
     to organ transplants, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. TITUS:
       H.R. 2602. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     include training for certain employees of air carriers to 
     combat human trafficking, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in 
     addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GOHMERT (for himself, Mr. Babin, Mr. Gosar, Mr. 
             Tipton, Mr. Westerman, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Burgess, 
             Mr. Abraham, Mr. Marshall, and Mr. Hunter):
       H.R. 2603. A bill to amend the Endangered Species Act of 
     1973 to provide that nonnative species in the United States 
     shall not be treated as endangered species or threatened 
     species for purposes of that Act; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. BROOKS of Alabama (for himself, Mr. King of 
             Iowa, Mr. Gohmert, and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 2604. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to modify the procedure to designate a foreign state, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GOODLATTE (for himself, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Gowdy, 
             and Ms. Jackson Lee):
       H.R. 2605. A bill to provide for additional resources for 
     the Secret Service, and to improve protections for restricted 
     areas; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. COLE (for himself, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Lucas, and 
             Mr. Russell):
       H.R. 2606. A bill to amend the Act of August 4, 1947, 
     (commonly known as the Stigler Act) with respect to 
     restrictions applicable to Indians of the Five Civilized 
     Tribes of Oklahoma, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CURBELO of Florida (for himself and Mr. 
             Moulton):
       H.R. 2607. A bill to amend the Coastal Zone Management Act 
     of 1972 to authorize grants for frequent and chronic coastal 
     flooding mitigation and adaptation infrastructure projects; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Mr. Kustoff of Tennessee, 
             Mr. Arrington, and Mr. Gottheimer):
       H.R. 2608. A bill to amend title 23, United States Code, 
     with respect to apportionments to States for certain highway 
     programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. GRAVES of Missouri:
       H.R. 2609. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Army to 
     revise certain authorized purposes described in the Missouri 
     River Mainstem Reservoir System Master Water Control Manual; 
     to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. HASTINGS:
       H.R. 2610. A bill to require reimbursement from certain 
     public officials whose travel results in unusual costs 
     relating to protection of those officials, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HILL (for himself and Mr. Lewis of Georgia):
       H.R. 2611. A bill to modify the boundary of the Little Rock 
     Central High School National Historic Site, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
       H.R. 2612. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, 
     encourage the placement of released Federal prisoners in 
     residential re-entry centers near their homes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS:
       H.R. 2613. A bill to restore employment and educational 
     opportunities in, and improve the economic stability of, 
     counties containing National Forest System land, while also 
     reducing Forest Service management costs, by ensuring that 
     such counties have a dependable source of revenue from timber 
     sales conducted on National Forest System land, to reduce 
     payments under the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-
     Determination Act of 2000 to reflect such counties' receipt 
     of timber sale revenues, to strengthen stewardship end result 
     contracting, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, and in addition to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. McNERNEY:
       H.R. 2614. A bill to direct the Attorney General to 
     establish metrics and standards to determine the 
     effectiveness in the programs of the Department of Justice in 
     combating gangs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. PALAZZO:
       H.R. 2615. A bill to authorize the exchange of certain land 
     located in Gulf Islands National Seashore, Jackson County, 
     Mississippi, between the National Park Service and the 
     Veterans of Foreign Wars, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. SCHRADER (for himself and Ms. Herrera Beutler):
       H.R. 2616. A bill to provide for statutes of limitations 
     for certain civil actions under the Servicemembers Civil 
     Relief Act; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself, Mr. King of New York, Mr. 
             Beyer, and Mr. Fitzpatrick):
       H. Con. Res. 60. Concurrent resolution recognizing the 
     September 11th National Memorial Trail as an important trail 
     and greenway to be enjoyed by all in honor of the heroes of 
     September 11th; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN (for herself, Mr. Engel, Mr. Issa, 
             Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Royce of California, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Ms. Norton, Ms. 
             Sinema, Mr. Takano, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New 
             York, Ms. Titus, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Dent, Ms. Brownley 
             of California, Ms. Speier, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             MacArthur, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Cook, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mr. Sires, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Ms. 
             Tenney, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Donovan, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Mr. Coffman, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Deutch, 
             and Mr. Schneider):
       H. Res. 351. A resolution condemning the violence and 
     persecution in Chechnya; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



