

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3358]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                     REMEMBERING BARBARA McCALLAHAN

  Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, it is with very great sadness today that 
I honor the life of my longtime staff member and dear friend, Barbara 
Wise McCallahan. Barb passed away on May 26, 2017.
  Barb has worked in my congressional and Senate offices for over 20 
years, joining my team on my very first day in Congress in 1997. She 
was a volunteer on my campaign for the U.S. House and worked many 
subsequent campaigns. She staffed my Howell and Flint Township offices 
when I served in the U.S. House. Over the years, she represented me in 
Livingston, Washtenaw, Monroe, Wayne, and Oakland Counties as a 
regional manager in the Senate. For over 20 years, she has been an 
anchor for me in southeast Michigan.
  Barb loved to tell the story of when she first walked into my 
campaign office to volunteer when I ran for the U.S. House of 
Representatives. Coming from the hometown of my opponent, she would 
laugh that my team suspected that she was a spy. This couldn't have 
been further from the truth. Barb has been fiercely loyal and 
steadfastly protective of me for over two decades.
  I cannot think of anyone who has spent more time over the years 
driving in a car with me. We have survived blizzards, avoided countless 
speed traps, identified the fastest drive-through restaurants, and I 
have never seen anyone who could bypass construction better than Barb. 
The countless hours we spent together over the years deepened my 
appreciation for her resolve and determination and cemented a lasting 
friendship.
  Barb was a fighter. She faced many challenges early in her life. She 
took that fighting spirit and tenacity and fought throughout her career 
for so many individuals, families, and communities she helped 
represent. She was committed, tough, proud, and resilient.
  I watched Barb struggle with the debilitating effects of Parkinson's 
disease in recent months and, along with her family, friends, and 
coworkers, was deeply affected by her losses earlier this year. While 
we will all continue to mourn her death, we also celebrate her life, 
her accomplishments, and her enduring spirit.
  Barb is an example of the amazing and talented professionals who 
commit themselves to congressional service. She has served the State of 
Michigan and her country with distinction and honor.
  No tribute to Barb can be done without including her family. I 
remember many community events and parades over the years with Barb and 
her young sons. Although a private person, Barb would light up when 
talking about her family; she was especially proud of her boys Patrick, 
Ian, and Brian and her grandson, Shane. On behalf of all of Team 
Stabenow, you will always be part of our family.
  Please join me and countless others as we honor the life of my 
longtime staff member and dear friend, Barbara McCallahan.

                          ____________________



