

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 74 (Monday, May 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 74 (Monday, May 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2649]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO ROB OLIVER

 Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 
distinguished career, service, and leadership of Augustana University 
president Rob Oliver.
  His 11 years of leadership as the 23rd president of Augustana 
University in Sioux Falls, SD, have highlighted his servant's heart, 
visionary attitude, and passion for higher education. As he prepares 
for this next chapter in life, I would like to honor Rob's dedication 
and efforts to not only continue the university's rich history of 
providing students with a quality, liberal arts education, but also for 
his commitment to ensuring future students are given the opportunity to 
advance their studies and given the foundation to live a life of 
purpose at Augustana University.
  President Oliver joined the university after being incredibly 
involved in the Sioux Falls financial, business, and philanthropic 
community. For many years, Rob pursued efforts to improve the economic 
vitality of the region and was also active as a board member and 
devoted volunteer for many organizations, including the board of 
trustees of then-Augustana College.
  Rob's presidential tenure occurred during a time of uncertainty for 
many colleges and universities across the country. With the rising 
costs of higher education, enrollment challenges, nationwide economic 
troubles, and a growing discourse regarding the value of a college 
degree, many traditional institutions were struggling to chart a 
sustainable path forward.
  However, through President Oliver's ability to inspire others, offer 
a strategic vision, and execute a thorough plan of action, he has 
responded to those difficulties and strengthened Augustana's mission to 
deliver a quality, well-rounded experience for students, faculty, and 
staff.
  Under Rob's direction, Augustana has attained a number of 
accomplishments. Many will point to the critical investments in the 
Froiland Science Complex and Mikkelsen Library and others will point to 
record-setting monetary support and vastly increased endowment and 
scholarship programs as remarkable accomplishments; yet it is also 
worthwhile to note the university's advancement of the Civitas honors 
program, new academic majors and curriculum, expanded undergraduate 
research, and an expansion of online offerings for undergraduate, 
graduate, and adult students. Additionally, the Center for Innovation 
and Entrepreneurship and the Student Success Center were created to 
provide important strategic partnerships and vocational engagement.
  Knowing the university's ability to attract students also depends on 
factors and opportunities outside the scholastic realm. President 
Oliver's era of leadership also included growth in the performing and 
visual arts, study abroad programs, and the construction and renovation 
of first-class, athletic facilities such as Kirkeby-Over Stadium, 
Ronken Field, and other projects through unprecedented, charitable 
gifts.
  The university has already seen the fruits of Rob's diligent work. 
With enrollment at a 26-year high, scholarships and financial aid for 
100 percent of its fulltime students, two NCAA national championships, 
a well-respected place among the Nation's top educational institutions, 
and additional projects already staged for the future, there is little 
doubt his 25 years as part of Augustana University, whether as a 
trustee, member of the faculty, or finally as president, President 
Oliver's outstanding legacy will leave an impact for many years to 
come.
  I wish Rob, his wife, Angela, and the entire family the very best as 
we celebrate his service to Augustana University and the people of 
South Dakota.

                          ____________________



