

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4760]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             70TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE MAINE LOBSTER FESTIVAL

  Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the Maine Lobster 
Festival on its 70th anniversary. On this date, the people of Maine 
celebrate our rich history in the valuable lobster trade, as well as 
the continuing commitment by our coastal communities to support and 
perpetuate our great maritime heritage.
  Since 1947, The Maine Lobster Festival has provided the people of 
Maine and tourists with exciting events, entertainment, and Maine 
seafood. The festival emerged out of a community-based effort at 
reviving summer activities that Camden, ME, established prior to World 
War II. A small group of citizens and summer visitors came together to 
revel in their coastal marine community. Their small gathering, which 
lost money in its first year, moved to Rockland the following year and 
immediately became an annual staple of the coastal area's summer 
schedule, creating the Maine Lobster Festival to operate as a nonprofit 
corporation that is responsible for the festival to this day.
  This nearly weeklong engagement in August is attended by both 
internationally recognized as well as local musicians and entertainers, 
who fill the concert stage with enthralling performances. A midway 
provides excitement for children of all ages. King Neptune and his 
court attend the event every year and a highlight is the crowning of 
the Maine Sea Goddess. The festival also boasts a wide range of Maine 
artistry, from craftsmen to painters, as well as one of the region's 
largest and most popular parades. In addition, there is often a U.S. 
Navy ship that offers unique tour opportunities to festival-goers. As 
the highlight, there are fresh lobster dinners prepared in the world's 
largest lobster cooker for the thousands of hungry attendees. While you 
may no longer be able to get ``all the lobster you can eat for $1,'' 
the festival promises to have more than enough lobster to go around.
  Year-in and year-out, the combined effort of more than a thousand 
volunteers generously donate their time makes the festival possible. 
Volunteers are committed to improving and showcasing midcoast Maine 
communities to the thousands of festival-goers that come from different 
parts of Maine, from across the country and around the world. Not only 
do they donate their time and effort, but they also donate all profits 
of the festival to Maine communities to provide needed support to local 
institutions such as food pantries, community service groups, emergency 
services, and college scholarships.
  The Maine Lobster Festival is recognized nationwide as one of the 
best events in the country, and this distinction could not be bestowed 
on a more deserving enterprise. I wish to join the greater Rockland 
community, as well as the State of Maine, in congratulating the Maine 
Lobster Festival on its 70th year of being an historic and cherished 
Maine institution.

                          ____________________



