

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4766-S4767]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr. Portman, Mr. Peters, Mr. 
             Wyden, Mr. Graham, Mr. Gardner, Mr. Brown, Mr. 
             Franken, Ms. Baldwin, and Mr. Alexander):
       S. 1700. A bill to amend the Energy Policy and Conservation 
     Act to establish a WaterSense program within the 
     Environmental Protection Agency, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr. Wyden):
       S. 1701. A bill to provide for Federal agencies to develop 
     public access policies relating to research conducted by 
     employees of that agency or from funds administered by that 
     agency; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. RISCH:
       S. 1702. A bill to amend the Marine Mammal Protection Act 
     of 1972 to reduce predation by sea lions on endangered 
     Columbia River salmon and other species not listed under the 
     Endangered Species Act of 1973, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH:
       S. 1703. A bill to amend section 212(d)(5) of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act to allow certain alien 
     veterans to be paroled into the United States to receive 
     health care furnished by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH:
       S. 1704. A bill to require the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to establish a veterans visa program to permit 
     veterans who have been removed from the United States to 
     return as immigrants, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BENNET (for himself and Mr. Boozman):
       S. 1705. A bill to provide to the Secretary of Agriculture 
     the ability to enter into a lease agreement for 
     administrative sites on National Forest System land, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
     and Forestry.
           By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr. Graham, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Ms. Collins, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. Warren, 
             and Mr. Coons):
       S. 1706. A bill to prevent human health threats posed by 
     the consumption of equines raised in the United States; to 
     the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND:
       S. 1707. A bill to amend the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 
     to provide for a standard medical expense deduction under the 
     supplemental nutrition assistance program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
     Forestry.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND:
       S. 1708. A bill to amend the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 
     to provide that certain students who are family caregivers 
     are eligible to participate in the Supplemental Nutrition 
     Assistance Program; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
     Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself, Mr. Hatch, and Mr. 
             Cornyn):
       S. 1709. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     provide a certification process for the issuance of 
     nondisclosure requirements accompanying certain 
     administrative subpoenas, to provide for judicial review of 
     such nondisclosure requirements, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. 
             Leahy, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Schumer, Mr. Nelson, Mr. 
             Franken, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Peters, Ms. Hassan, Mr. 
             Cardin, Mr. Reed, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Durbin, Ms. 
             Stabenow, Ms. Klobuchar, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Merkley, 
             Mr. Markey, Ms. Hirono, Ms. Harris, and Mr. Booker):
       S. 1710. A bill to reduce the Federal budget deficit by 
     closing big oil tax loopholes, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN:
       S. 1711. A bill to amend the Public Utility Regulatory 
     Policies Act of 1978 to assist States in adopting updated 
     interconnection procedures and tariff schedules and standards 
     for supplemental, backup, and standby power fees for projects 
     for combined heat and power technology and waste heat to 
     power technology, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. WYDEN:
       S. 1712. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to provide for the automatic recertification of income for 
     income-driven repayment plans, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr. Coons, Ms. Collins, 
             and Mr. Reed):
       S. 1713. A bill to require certain financial assistance 
     under the State energy program and the Weatherization 
     Assistance Program to be distributed without undue delay to 
     support State and local high-impact energy efficiency and 
     renewable energy initiatives; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr. Merkley):
       S. 1714. A bill to provide for the conduct of certain 
     economic activities in Malheur County, Oregon, to provide for 
     the conduct of a study on the need for a regional economic 
     commission for certain counties in the State of Oregon, to 
     withdraw certain Federal land located in Malheur County, 
     Oregon, from all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal 
     under the public land laws, location, entry, and patent under 
     the mining laws, and operation under the mineral leasing 
     laws, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. Menendez, Ms. Hirono, 
             Ms. Baldwin, Ms. Warren, Mr. Whitehouse, Mrs. 
             Feinstein, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Booker, Mr. Durbin, Mr. 
             Kaine, Mr. Brown, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Franken, Mr. 
             Heinrich, Mr. Casey, Ms. Cortez Masto, Mr. Cardin, 
             Ms. Hassan, Mr. Carper, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Coons, 
             Mrs. McCaskill, Mrs. Murray, Ms. Harris, Ms. 
             Stabenow, Mr. Reed, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Sanders, Mr. 
             Schumer, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. Cantwell, Mr. Donnelly, 
             Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Peters, Mr. Udall, Mr. Markey, Mr. 
             Murphy, Ms. Heitkamp, Mrs. Shaheen, Mrs. Gillibrand, 
             Mr. Merkley, Mr. Nelson, Mr. King, Mr. Schatz, Mr. 
             Warner, Mr. Tester, and Mr. Manchin):
       S. 1715. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to clarify that all provisions shall apply to legally married 
     same-sex couples in the same manner as other married couples, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. FISCHER (for herself and Mr. King):
       S. 1716. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide a credit to employers who provide paid family and 
     medical leave, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 1717. A bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to 
     ensure that persons who form corporations or limited 
     liability companies in the United States disclose the 
     beneficial owners of those corporations or limited liability 
     companies, in order to prevent wrongdoers from exploiting 
     United States corporations and limited liability companies 
     for criminal gain, to assist law enforcement in detecting, 
     preventing, and punishing terrorism, money laundering, and 
     other misconduct involving United States corporations and 
     limited liability companies, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Inhofe, 
             Mr. Rubio, Mr. Cassidy, and Ms. Warren):
       S. 1718. A bill to authorize the minting of a coin in honor 
     of the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Ms. Cantwell):
       S. 1719. A bill to eliminate duties on imports of 
     recreational performance outerwear, to establish the 
     Sustainable Textile and Apparel Research Fund, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. COTTON (for himself and Mr. Perdue):
       S. 1720. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to establish a skills-based immigration points system, to 
     focus family-sponsored immigration on spouses and minor 
     children, to eliminate the Diversity Visa Program, to set a 
     limit on the number of refugees admitted annually to the 
     United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr. Rounds, Mr. Boozman, 
             Mrs. Murray, and Mr. Heinrich):
       S. 1721. A bill to amend titles 10 and 37, United States 
     Code, to provide compensation and credit for retired pay 
     purposes for maternity leave taken by members of the reserve 
     components, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN:
       S. 1722. A bill to require the Committee on Foreign 
     Investment in the United States to consider the reciprocity 
     of foreign investment, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. SANDERS:
       S. 1723. A bill to appropriate amounts to the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs to improve health care furnished by the 
     Department, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.

[[Page S4767]]

  

           By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr. Moran, Mrs. Capito, and 
             Mr. Casey):
       S. 1724. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to establish a new tax credit and grant program to stimulate 
     investment and healthy nutrition options in food deserts, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself and Ms. Cortez Masto):
       S. 1725. A bill to require the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to identify each alien who has served, or is 
     serving, in the Armed Forces of the United States when any 
     alien applies for an immigration benefit or is placed in an 
     immigration enforcement proceeding, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. 
             Markey, Mrs. Feinstein, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Franken, Mrs. 
             Shaheen, Ms. Warren, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Durbin, Mr. 
             Merkley, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Udall, Mr. Booker, Mr. 
             Leahy, and Mrs. Gillibrand):
       S. 1726. A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 to require shareholder authorization before a public 
     company may make certain political expenditures, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself and Ms. Cortez Masto):
       S. 1727. A bill to establish a naturalization office at 
     every initial military training site; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mr. CARDIN:
       S. 1728. A bill to require non-Federal prison, 
     correctional, and detention facilities holding Federal 
     prisoners or detainees under a contract with the Federal 
     Government to make the same information available to the 
     public that Federal prisons and correctional facilities are 
     required to make available; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. ROBERTS (for himself, Mr. Warner, Mr. Crapo, Mr. 
             Cardin, and Mr. Young):
       S. 1729. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for independent accreditation for dialysis 
     facilities and assurances of high quality surveys; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr. Coons, Mr. Moran, Mrs. 
             Shaheen, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Enzi, Mr. 
             Isakson, Mr. Durbin, and Mr. Murphy):
       S. 1730. A bill to implement policies to end preventable 
     maternal, newborn, and child deaths globally; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. THUNE:
       S. 1731. A bill to address the forest health crisis on 
     National Forest System land, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works.

                          ____________________



