

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 111 (Wednesday, June 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 111 (Wednesday, June 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5236-H5237]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  TRIO PROGRAM ESSENTIAL FOR STUDENTS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak 
about TRIO programs, which, for more than 50 years, have helped 
millions of low-income students attend college. Often, these students 
are the first in their family to earn a college degree. TRIO programs 
have helped low-income and disabled students who want to pursue a 
higher education, but thought college was unaffordable and out of 
reach.
  Children from disadvantaged families often struggle to access 
important mentoring, tutoring, and other hands-on services designed to 
help encourage high school completion and the pursuit of postsecondary 
education.
  Sadly, these students are often unprepared for college academics and 
require remedial courses that add to the challenges of completing a 
program. Too many disadvantaged students simply give up on even 
applying to college because they are confused by the application 
process, overwhelmed by the cost, or are unaware of the available 
financial aid options, despite our best efforts to ensure the 
information is available and understandable.
  Recognizing these challenges, the Federal Government has created 
several programs to help disadvantaged students access the support 
necessary to realize the dream of a college degree. For example, 
college preparation and retention programs such as TRIO, Upward Bound, 
Talent Search, and Student Support Services provide a pipeline of 
support services that encourage low-income students to graduate high 
school and earn a postsecondary degree.
  Mr. Speaker, just last week, the House unanimously approved the 
Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act 
to reauthorize the Carl D. Perkins Act and support skills-based career 
education. This bill will help close the skills gap that exists today 
and prepare students for in-demand jobs.
  TRIO programs are just as important to help those who want to pursue 
a college degree have the resources necessary to do so.
  As a senior member on the House Education and the Workforce 
Committee, I am a strong supporter of TRIO. I am also a member of the 
House TRIO Caucus. I want all Americans to have higher education 
opportunities if that is the path that they choose.
  The TRIO program dates back to the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 
in response to the administration's War on Poverty. That is when Upward 
Bound was formed. In 1965, Talent Search, the second outreach program, 
was created as part of the Higher Education Act.

[[Page H5237]]

  


                              {time}  1015

  In 1968, Student Support Services, which was originally known as 
Special Services for Disadvantaged Students, was authorized by the 
Higher Education Amendments and became the third in a series of 
educational opportunity programs. By the late 1960s, the term TRIO was 
coined to describe these three Federal programs.
  Over the years, the TRIO programs have been expanded and improved to 
provide a wider range of services and to reach more students who need 
assistance. In 1990, the Department created the Upward Bound Math and 
Science program to address the need for specific instruction in the 
fields of math and science.
  Mr. Speaker, as you can see, TRIO programs have a long history of 
helping low-income individuals, first-generation college students, and 
individuals with disabilities reach their full potential. I support 
these programs, and I want to see every American reach his or her 
educational goals.

                          ____________________



