

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 73 (Friday, April 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 73 (Friday, April 28, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2636-S2637]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 324, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the provision of adult 
day health care services for veterans.


                                 S. 425

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 425, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to improve the historic rehabilitation 
tax credit, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy), the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), the Senator 
from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. 
Hassan) were added as cosponsors of S. 445, a bill to amend title XVIII 
of the Social Security Act to ensure more timely access to home health 
services for Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 486

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) was added as a cosponsor of S. 486, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for the non-
application of Medicare competitive acquisition rates to complex 
rehabilitative wheelchairs and accessories.


                                 S. 652

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mr. Alexander) was added as a cosponsor of S. 652, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to reauthorize a program for early detection, 
diagnosis, and treatment regarding deaf and hard-of-hearing newborns, 
infants, and young children.


                                 S. 836

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 836, a bill to amend the 
Federal Credit Union Act to exclude a loan secured by a non-owner 
occupied 1- to 4-family dwelling from the definition of a member 
business loan, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 880

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 880, a bill to ensure 
the use of American iron and steel in public water systems, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 915

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 915, a bill to amend title II of 
the Social Security Act to repeal the Government pension offset and 
windfall elimination provisions.


                                 S. 947

  At the request of Ms. Hassan, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 947, a bill to protect 
passengers on flights in air transportation from being denied boarding 
involuntarily, and for other purposes.


                            S. CON. RES. 12

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 12, a concurrent 
resolution expressing the sense of Congress that those who served in 
the bays, harbors, and territorial seas of the Republic of Vietnam 
during the period beginning on January 9, 1962, and ending on May 7, 
1975, should be presumed to have served in the Republic of Vietnam for 
all purposes under the Agent Orange Act of 1991.

[[Page S2637]]

  



                              S. RES. 109

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 109, a resolution 
encouraging the Government of Pakistan to release Aasiya Noreen, 
internationally known as Asia Bibi, and reform its religiously 
intolerant laws regarding blasphemy.

                          ____________________



