

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4567-H4569]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. JEFFRIES (for himself, Mr. Gowdy, Mr. Richmond, 
             Mr. Ratcliffe, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. Donovan, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. Cardenas, Mrs. 
             Love, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, and Mr. Curbelo 
             of Florida):
       H.R. 2617. A bill to provide first-time, low-level, 
     nonviolent simple possession offenders under age 25 an 
     opportunity to expunge that conviction after successful 
     completion of court-imposed probation; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for himself and Ms. 
             Sanchez):
       H.R. 2618. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide further tax incentives for dependent care 
     assistance; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York:
       H.R. 2619. A bill to prohibit the Coast Guard from 
     establishing any new anchorage grounds in the Hudson River, 
     New York, until it reports to the Congress on the potential 
     impact of such anchorage grounds to sites listed on the 
     National Priorities List and to critical habitat; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. BISHOP of Utah (for himself, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. 
             Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Chabot, Mr. 
             Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Gosar, Mr. 
             Luetkemeyer, Mrs. Noem, Mr. Rogers of Alabama, Mr. 
             Thomas J. Rooney of Florida, Mr. Sessions, Mr. 
             Jordan, Mr. Pearce,

[[Page H4568]]

             Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Marchant, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. 
             Webster of Florida, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. 
             Newhouse, Mr. Collins of New York, Mr. Messer, Mr. 
             Meadows, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Collins of Georgia, Mr. Davidson, Mr. Westerman, Mr. 
             Tipton, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Hudson, Mr. 
             Stewart, Mr. Emmer, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Rouzer, Mrs. 
             Love, Mr. Ratcliffe, and Mr. Banks of Indiana):
       H.R. 2620. A bill to revise various laws that interfere 
     with the right of the people to obtain and use firearms for 
     all lawful purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. THORNBERRY:
       H.R. 2621. A bill to strengthen security in the Indo-Asia-
     Pacific region, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services, and in addition to the Committees on Foreign 
     Affairs, and the Budget, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. LYNCH (for himself and Mr. King of New York):
       H.R. 2622. A bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to 
     authorize the Secretary of the Treasury to include all funds 
     when issuing certain geographic targeting orders, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. MEADOWS:
       H.R. 2623. A bill to provide for a method by which the 
     economic costs of significant regulatory actions may be 
     offset by the repeal of other regulatory actions, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina:
       H.R. 2624. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to expand school choice opportunities for children of 
     active duty members of the Armed Forces of the United States; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. McGOVERN (for himself, Mr. Jones, Mr. Hastings, 
             Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Evans, Mr. Himes, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. 
             Moulton, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Polis, Mr. 
             Veasey, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Connolly, Mr. 
             Peters, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Clay, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. 
             Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. 
             Delaney, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Judy Chu of California, and 
             Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 2625. A bill to establish a grant program to encourage 
     the use of assistance dogs by certain members of the Armed 
     Forces and veterans; to the Committee on Armed Services, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HURD (for himself, Mr. McCaul, and Mr. Katko):
       H.R. 2626. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 and the Immigration and Nationality Act to improve visa 
     security, visa applicant vetting, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HURD (for himself, Mr. Vela, Mr. McCaul, and Mr. 
             Katko):
       H.R. 2627. A bill to authorize the development of open-
     source software based on certain systems of the Department of 
     Homeland Security and the Department of State to facilitate 
     the vetting of travelers against terrorist watchlists and law 
     enforcement databases, enhance border management, and improve 
     targeting and analysis, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas (for himself and Mr. 
             Barton):
       H.R. 2628. A bill to amend titles XIX and XXI of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for 12-month continuous enrollment of 
     individuals under the Medicaid program and Children's Health 
     Insurance Program, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. FRANCIS ROONEY of Florida (for himself, Mr. 
             Byrne, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Cole, Mr. Grothman, 
             Mr. Lewis of Minnesota, Mr. Smucker, and Mr. 
             Ferguson):
       H.R. 2629. A bill to amend the National Labor Relations Act 
     to provide for appropriate designation of collective 
     bargaining units; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. GOSAR (for himself, Mr. Franks of Arizona, and 
             Mr. Biggs):
       H.R. 2630. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the 
     Interior to convey certain land to La Paz County, Arizona, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr. Jones, Mr. Wilson of 
             South Carolina, Mr. Cartwright, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. 
             Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Walz, Mr. Gallego, and Mr. 
             Conyers):
       H.R. 2631. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     clarify the scope of procedural rights of members of the 
     uniformed services with respect to their employment and 
     reemployment rights, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CLAY (for himself and Mrs. Wagner):
       H.R. 2632. A bill to require the Secretary of the Army, 
     acting through the Chief of Engineers, to undertake 
     remediation oversight of the West Lake Landfill located in 
     Bridgeton, Missouri; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois (for himself, Ms. 
             DelBene, and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 2633. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to enhance the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit and 
     make the credit fully refundable; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. DesJARLAIS (for himself, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. 
             Cooper, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. Fleischmann, Mr. 
             Kustoff of Tennessee, and Mr. Roe of Tennessee):
       H.R. 2634. A bill to designate the Mental Health 
     Residential Rehabilitation Treatment Facility Expansion of 
     the Department of Veteran Affairs' Alvin C. York Medical 
     Center in Murfreesboro, Tennessee as the 'Sergeant John 
     Toombs Residential Rehabilitation Treatment Facility'; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. HANABUSA (for herself, Mr. Peters, Mr. Swalwell 
             of California, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Vargas, 
             Ms. Bordallo, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Ms. Lee, Mr. Soto, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Al 
             Green of Texas, Mr. Takano, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. Gabbard, Ms. 
             Rosen, and Mr. Gene Green of Texas):
       H.R. 2635. A bill to exempt children of certain Filipino 
     World War II veterans from the numerical limitations on 
     immigrant visas and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio (for himself and Mr. Olson):
       H.R. 2636. A bill to establish an independent inspector 
     general for the Federal Communications Commission; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. KEATING:
       H.R. 2637. A bill to amend title 46, United States Code, to 
     reauthorize the Fishing Safety Training Grant Program and the 
     Fishing Safety Research Grant Program; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. KING of New York (for himself, Ms. Rosen, Mr. 
             Welch, Mr. Valadao, Mr. Olson, and Mr. Garamendi):
       H.R. 2638. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow an increased work opportunity credit with 
     respect to recent veterans, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. KING of New York (for himself, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. 
             DeFazio, Mrs. Dingell, and Mr. Meehan):
       H.R. 2639. A bill to reauthorize the Elder Justice Act of 
     2009; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to 
     the Committees on the Judiciary, Energy and Commerce, and 
     Education and the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia (for himself and Ms. Ros-
             Lehtinen):
       H.R. 2640. A bill to prohibit discrimination in adoption or 
     foster care placements based on the sexual orientation, 
     gender identity, or marital status of any prospective 
     adoptive or foster parent, or the sexual orientation or 
     gender identity of the child involved; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. LONG (for himself and Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New 
             Mexico):
       H.R. 2641. A bill to promote the development of safe drugs 
     for neonates; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself and 
             Mr. Pallone):
       H.R. 2642. A bill to allow certain Indonesian citizens to 
     file a motion to reopen their asylum claims; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. MARINO (for himself, Mr. Cicilline, and Mr. 
             Donovan):
       H.R. 2643. A bill to amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 
     1961 to require the annual human rights reports to include 
     information on the institutionalization of children and the 
     subjection of children to cruel, inhuman, or degrading 
     treatment, unnecessary detention, and denial of the right to 
     life, liberty, and the security of persons, and for other

[[Page H4569]]

     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. MARINO (for himself, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, and 
             Mr. Roskam):
       H.R. 2644. A bill to improve the understanding of, and 
     promote access to treatment for, chronic kidney disease, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. MURPHY of Florida (for herself, Ms. Sinema, Mr. 
             Gallego, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Rosen, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Soto, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Cooper, Mr. Schneider, Mr. Schrader, 
             Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. Crist, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. 
             David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Costa, and Ms. Blunt 
             Rochester):
       H.R. 2645. A bill to amend the National Security Act of 
     1947 to provide for congressional notification of disclosures 
     of top secret information to certain foreign countries, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Intelligence 
     (Permanent Select).
           By Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN (for herself, Mr. Deutch, Mr. 
             Rogers of Kentucky, Mrs. Lowey, and Mr. Schiff):
       H.R. 2646. A bill to reauthorize the United States-Jordan 
     Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER:
       H.R. 2647. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to repeal the 10 percent threshold on the deduction for 
     medical expenses; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. STIVERS (for himself and Mr. Takano):
       H.R. 2648. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     ensure that the requirements that new Federal employees who 
     are veterans with service-connected disabilities are provided 
     leave for purposes of undergoing medical treatment for such 
     disabilities apply to certain employees of the Veterans 
     Health Administration, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN (for herself and Mr. 
             Cartwright):
       H.R. 2649. A bill to require the Federal Energy Regulatory 
     Commission to apply certain procedures before granting a 
     certificate of public convenience and necessity for a 
     proposed pipeline project, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania (for himself and Mr. 
             Connolly):
       H. Con. Res. 61. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of Congress that all trade agreements the United States 
     enters into, should provide reasonable access and 
     collaboration of each nation involved in such an agreement, 
     for the purpose of search and recovery activities relating to 
     members of the United States Armed Forces missing in action 
     from prior wars or military conflicts; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Ms. TENNEY (for herself, Mr. Schneider, Mrs. 
             Hartzler, and Mrs. Wagner):
       H. Con. Res. 62. Concurrent resolution to urge the 
     President to direct the United States representative to the 
     United Nations to use the voice and vote of the United States 
     to hold the United Nations and its member states accountable 
     for allegations of sexual abuse and exploitation by United 
     Nations peacekeepers; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. MOULTON (for himself, Mr. Wilson of South 
             Carolina, Mrs. Hartzler, and Mr. Meeks):
       H. Res. 353. A resolution supporting a democratic Hungary 
     and reaffirming the long-standing and mutually-beneficial 
     relationship between the United States and Hungary; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself, Mr. Engel, Mr. 
             McCarthy, Mr. Hoyer, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Poe of Texas, 
             Mr. McCaul, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. Conyers, 
             Mr. Meadows, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Lance, Mr. Schneider, and Mr. 
             Goodlatte):
       H. Res. 354. A resolution condemning the violence against 
     peaceful protesters outside the Turkish Ambassador's 
     residence on May 16, 2017, and calling for the perpetrators 
     to be brought to justice and measures to be taken to prevent 
     similar incidents in the future; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MEEKS (for himself, Mr. Cook, Mr. Engel, Mr. 
             Royce of California, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Keating, Mr. 
             Deutch, Mr. Connolly, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Rohrabacher, 
             Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Sherman, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Dent, 
             and Mr. Goodlatte):
       H. Res. 355. A resolution condemning in the strongest terms 
     the terrorist attacks in Manchester, United Kingdom, on May 
     22, 2017, expressing heartfelt condolences, and reaffirming 
     unwavering support for the special relationship between our 
     peoples and nations in the wake of these attacks; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself and 
             Ms. Schakowsky):
       H. Res. 356. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the Senate should give its advice and 
     consent to the ratification of the Convention on the 
     Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



