

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 110 (Tuesday, June 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 110 (Tuesday, June 27, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5231-H5232]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Ms. SHEA-PORTER (for herself and Ms. Rosen):
       H.R. 3064. A bill to develop an anticorruption strategy, 
     establish Offices for Anticorruption in the Department of 
     Defense, Department of State, and United States Agency for 
     International Development, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. SHEA-PORTER:
       H.R. 3065. A bill to direct the Comptroller General of the 
     United States to submit to Congress a report on the national 
     security implications of the outsourcing of industrial and 
     manufacturing capacities to locations outside the United 
     States; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Ms. SHEA-PORTER:
       H.R. 3066. A bill to direct the Secretary of Defense to 
     carry out a program to protect United States students against 
     foreign agents; to the Committee on Armed Services, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Intelligence (Permanent Select), 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts (for herself, Mrs. Brooks 
             of Indiana, and Mr. Meehan):
       H.R. 3067. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     establish certain criminal violations for various aspects of 
     harassment using the interstate telecommunications system, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for himself and Mr. 
             Kind):
       H.R. 3068. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to enhance the research credit for domestic 
     manufacturers; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. BUSTOS (for herself, Mr. Westerman, Mr. 
             Loebsack, and Mr. Tonko):
       H.R. 3069. A bill to provide for guidance relating to the 
     management of Department of Defense arsenals to ensure 
     affordability and competence in critical capabilities areas, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. McHENRY (for himself and Mr. Foster):
       H.R. 3070. A bill to amend the Federal Deposit Insurance 
     Act to clarify the definition of a deposit broker, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. CARTER of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Himes, and 
             Mr. Grothman):
       H.R. 3071. A bill to require executive agencies to consider 
     equipment rental in any cost-effectiveness analysis for 
     equipment acquisition, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. CLAY (for himself and Mr. Stivers):
       H.R. 3072. A bill to increase from $10,000,000,000 to 
     $50,000,000,000 the threshold figure at which regulated 
     depository institutions are subject to direct examination and 
     reporting requirements of the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
     Protection, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. CURBELO of Florida (for himself, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. O'Rourke, Ms. 
             Wilson of Florida, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, and Mr. 
             Blumenauer):
       H.R. 3073. A bill to provide for the issuance of a Mental 
     Health Awareness Semipostal Stamp; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ELLISON:
       H.R. 3074. A bill to reclassify certain low-level felonies 
     as misdemeanors, to eliminate the increased penalties for 
     cocaine offenses where the cocaine involved is cocaine base, 
     to reinvest in our communities, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Energy and Commerce, and Education and the 
     Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GALLEGO (for himself, Mr. O'Halleran, and Ms. 
             Rosen):
       H.R. 3075. A bill to amend title 37, United States Code, to 
     increase adjustments of monthly basic pay for members of the 
     uniformed services, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Armed Services.
           By Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana (for himself and Mr. 
             Kennedy):
       H.R. 3076. A bill to amend section 552a of title 5, United 
     States Code (commonly referred to as the Privacy Act) to 
     require agencies to accept electronic release forms, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas (for himself and Mrs. 
             Walorski):
       H.R. 3077. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to repeal the retirement earnings test, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. KIHUEN (for himself, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Nadler, 
             Ms. Rosen, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Weber of 
             Texas, and Mr. Gottheimer):
       H.R. 3078. A bill to extend quarterly reports on confirmed 
     ballistic missile launches from Iran and imposition of 
     sanctions in connection with those launches; to the Committee 
     on Intelligence (Permanent Select), and in addition to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Mr. Burgess, Ms. Clarke of New 
             York, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Evans, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Ms. Norton, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. McGovern, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Polis, 
             Mr. Raskin, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Biggs, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Lance, Mr. Labrador, Mr. 
             Massie, Mr. Jones, Mr. Stivers, Mrs. Watson Coleman, 
             Mr. Welch, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Khanna, Mr. DeSaulnier, and 
             Mr. Amash):
       H.R. 3079. A bill to reduce by one-half of one percent the 
     discretionary budget authority of the Department of Defense 
     for a fiscal year if the financial statement of the 
     Department of Defense for the previous fiscal year does not 
     receive a qualified or unqualified audit opinion by an 
     external independent auditor, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. LOEBSACK (for himself and Mrs. Bustos):
       H.R. 3080. A bill to provide installation reutilization 
     authority for arsenals, depots, and plants; to the Committee 
     on Armed Services.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico (for 
             herself and Ms. Shea-Porter):
       H.R. 3081. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to eliminate the five-month waiting period in the 
     disability insurance program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. MENG:
       H.R. 3082. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to require the Secretary of Education to translate the FAFSA 
     into foreign languages, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia (for himself, Ms. Clark 
             of Massachusetts, Mr. MacArthur, Mr. Langevin, Mr. 
             Blum, and Mr. Bera):
       H.R. 3083. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to provide for the preparation of career and technical 
     education teachers; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. PAULSEN (for himself and Mr. Crowley):
       H.R. 3084. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to modify the tax treatment of certain equity grants; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. PEARCE (for himself, Mr. McKinley, Ms. Michelle 
             Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, and Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of 
             New Mexico):
       H.R. 3085. A bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal, 
     collectively, to American military personnel who fought in 
     defense of Bataan, Corregidor, Guam, Wake Island, and the 
     Philippine Archipelago between December 7, 1941, and May 10, 
     1942, and who died or were imprisoned by the Japanese 
     military in the Philippines, Japan, Korea, Manchuria, Wake 
     Island, and Guam from April 9, 1942, until September 2, 1945, 
     in recognition of their personal sacrifice and service to 
     their country; to the Committee on Financial Services, and in 
     addition to the Committee on House Administration, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. PERLMUTTER (for himself, Mr. Bridenstine, and 
             Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas):
       H.R. 3086. A bill to improve understanding and forecasting 
     of space weather events, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and in addition 
     to the Committees on Armed Services, Intelligence (Permanent 
     Select), Foreign Affairs, and Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER (for himself and Ms. Lofgren):
       H.R. 3087. A bill to provide for the admission to the 
     United States of certain Tibetans; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.

[[Page H5232]]

  

           By Mr. SWALWELL of California (for himself, Ms. 
             Stefanik, and Mr. Hudson):
       H.R. 3088. A bill to amend the Workforce Innovation and 
     Opportunity Act to require one-stop delivery systems under 
     such Act to offer services through internet websites and to 
     direct the Secretary of Labor to develop standards and best 
     practices for such websites, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BUCK:
       H. Res. 410. A resolution electing Members to certain 
     standing committees of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. HARPER:
       H. Res. 411. A resolution adjusting the amount of the 
     Members' Representational Allowance; considered and agreed 
     to.
           By Ms. SANCHEZ:
       H. Res. 412. A resolution electing a Member to a certain 
     standing committee of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. CARBAJAL (for himself, Ms. Herrera Beutler, Mr. 
             Panetta, Mr. Hunter, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Young of 
             Alaska, Mr. Huffman, and Mr. Issa):
       H. Res. 413. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of July as ``American Grown Flower Month''; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mrs. DINGELL (for herself, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson 
             of Texas, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. McCollum, Mr. 
             Crowley, Ms. Lee, and Mr. Ellison):
       H. Res. 416. A resolution recognizing the Muslim holy month 
     of Ramadan, commending a month of fasting and spiritual 
     renewal, and extending best wishes to Muslims in the United 
     States and across the globe for a joyous and meaningful 
     observance of Eid al-Fitr; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. ROSS:
       H. Res. 417. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives regarding the importance of civic 
     education and civic involvement programs in the elementary 
     and secondary schools of the United States; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce.

                          ____________________



