

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3991]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              150TH ANNIVERSARY OF NEW BALTIMORE, MICHIGAN

 Mr. PETERS. Mr President, today I wish to recognize the 150th 
anniversary of the city of New Baltimore, MI. This celebration is a 
historic benchmark for New Baltimore, as well as the State of Michigan.
  Located in Macomb County, along the northern coastline of Lake St. 
Clair, New Baltimore residents pride themselves on their traditional 
downtown, rich heritage, recreational activities, and a family-
orientated spirit. Throughout 150 years of change and growth, the city 
remains anchored in that local spirit.
  The area was first inhabited by French fur trappers and hunters. 
Among those was an explorer named Pierre Yax, the son of the first 
German resident of Michigan. Yax secured a land grant from President 
John Quincy Adams in 1826, in what was then the Michigan Territory. As 
other French settlers followed, long farms were established, stretching 
from the rivers outward. In 1845, the area was first recognized as a 
settlement when Alfred Ashley platted 60 acres of land. Mr. Ashley was 
a local businessman and would name the area the Village of Ashley. This 
name would remain until 1867 when the village was officially 
incorporated as New Baltimore. New Baltimore would stay a village until 
it became a city in 1931.
  In its early days, New Baltimore was linked to the regional economy 
through its position along waterways. It operated as a small port, 
bringing agriculture and manufactured goods to the surrounding 
communities. The area became known for the manufacturing of barrels, 
brooms, bricks, coffins, corsets, and creamery products.
  As shipping methods changed and automobile transportation increased, 
so too did the role of New Baltimore. The city began transitioning to a 
resort and commercial area. New attractions were built, including an 
opera house, hotels, saloons, a brewery, and other leisure and resort 
attractions. With the construction of a locomotive line between port 
Huron and Detroit in the 1800s, New Baltimore became a hub of activity 
well into the 20th century.
  Today New Baltimore is a vibrant community covering nearly 7 square 
miles. Residents take pride in their excellent schools, including a 
high school, two middle schools, seven elementary schools, two early 
childhood centers, and an alternative education program. The resort 
industry continues to flourish with events such as the annual Bay-Rama 
Fish Fly Festival, which attracts thousands of people each year. The 
city's public park and beaches also provide opportunity for numerous 
recreational activities.
  The city of New Baltimore has a proud history, vibrant present, and 
bright future. As New Baltimore celebrates this milestone, I ask my 
colleagues to join me in congratulating its residents, elected 
officials, and businesses as they celebrate their history. I wish the 
city continued growth and prosperity in the years ahead.

                          ____________________



