

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4936-H4938]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. CURBELO of Florida (for himself and Mr. Danny K. 
             Davis of Illinois):
       H.R. 2901. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to make permanent the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance 
     matching grant program; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself, Mr. McKinley, Mr. Walz, 
             Mr. Reichert, Mr. Schrader, and Mr. Katko):
       H.R. 2902. A bill to amend part B of the Individuals with 
     Disabilities Education Act to provide full Federal funding of 
     such part; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 2903. A bill to direct the Federal Communications 
     Commission to promulgate regulations that establish a 
     national standard for determining whether mobile and 
     broadband services available in rural areas are reasonably 
     comparable to those services provided in urban areas; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. POCAN (for himself, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Correa, Ms. 
             Barragan, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. 
             Blunt Rochester, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle 
             of Pennsylvania, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Ms. Brownley 
             of California, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Carson of Indiana, 
             Mr. Cartwright, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. Cicilline, 
             Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
             Mr. Cohen, Mr. Crist, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Curbelo of 
             Florida, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. Delaney, Ms. 
             DelBene, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Engel, Ms. 
             Eshoo, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Mr. Foster, Ms. 
             Frankel of Florida, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Heck, Mr. Higgins of New 
             York, Mr. Himes, Ms. Norton, Mr. Huffman, Ms. 
             Jayapal, Mr. Keating, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. 
             Kennedy, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Kihuen, Mr. Kildee, Mr. 
             Kind, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Ms. Lee, 
             Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mrs. Lowey, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of 
             New Mexico, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Meng, Ms. Moore, Mr. 
             Moulton, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Mr. Nadler, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Norcross, Mr. O'Rourke, 
             Mr. Pallone, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Peters, 
             Ms. Pingree, Mr. Polis, Mr. Raskin, Miss Rice of New 
             York, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Rush, Mr. Ryan 
             of Ohio, Mr. Sarbanes, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Schiff, 
             Mr. Schneider, Mr. Schrader, Mr. Scott of Virginia, 
             Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Shea-
             Porter, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Soto, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Mr. Takano, Ms. Titus, Mr. Tonko, Ms. 
             Tsongas, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Walz, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, 
             Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Welch, Mr. Yarmuth, and Mr. 
             Brady of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 2904. A bill to direct the Secretary of Defense to 
     review the discharge characterization of former members of 
     the Armed Forces who were discharged by reason of the sexual 
     orientation of the member, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Iowa (for himself and Ms. Sinema):
       H.R. 2905. A bill to require the Attorney General to 
     establish procedures for expedited review of the case of any 
     person who unlawfully solicits personal information for 
     purposes of committing identity theft, while purporting to be 
     acting on behalf of the IRS, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. BUCSHON (for himself and Mr. Bera):
       H.R. 2906. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act 
     with respect to the designation of general surgery shortage 
     areas, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. TIPTON:
       H.R. 2907. A bill to amend the Mineral Leasing Act to 
     require the Secretary of the Interior to develop and publish 
     an all-of-the-above quadrennial Federal onshore energy 
     production strategy to meet domestic energy needs, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. LYNCH (for himself, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Ben Ray 
             Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. Sarbanes, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Welch, Mr. Capuano, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. 
             Raskin, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Tonko, Mr. McGovern, Ms. 
             Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. McEachin, Mr. DeSaulnier, 
             Mr. Payne, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Keating, 
             Mr. Evans, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Khanna, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, and Mr. Peters):
       H.R. 2908. A bill to direct Federal departments and 
     agencies to perform certain functions to ensure that climate 
     change-related impacts are fully considered in the 
     development of national security doctrine, policies, and 
     plans, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on Armed 
     Services, Foreign Affairs, Science, Space, and Technology, 
     and Intelligence (Permanent Select), for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MASSIE (for himself, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
             Perry, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. 
             Gosar, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Amash, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. 
             Meadows, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, Mr. Brooks of 
             Alabama, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Budd, Mr. 
             Buck, Mr. Biggs, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. Blum, Mr. 
             Rokita, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Weber of Texas, and Mr. 
             Allen):
       H.R. 2909. A bill to require reciprocity between the 
     District of Columbia and other States and jurisdictions with 
     respect to the ability of individuals to carry certain 
     concealed firearms, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. FLORES (for himself, Mr. McKinley, Mr. Johnson 
             of Ohio, Mr. Olson, and Mr. Collins of New York):
       H.R. 2910. A bill to provide for Federal and State agency 
     coordination in the approval of certain authorizations under 
     the Natural Gas Act, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN (for herself, Mr. Serrano, Mr. 
             Curbelo of Florida, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New 
             Mexico, Mr. Cardenas, Mrs. Torres, Mr. Hurd, Mr. King 
             of New York, and Mr. Newhouse):
       H.R. 2911. A bill to establish within the Smithsonian 
     Institution the National Museum of the American Latino, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on House Administration, 
     and in addition to the Committees on Natural Resources, and 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska (for himself, Mr. Lamborn, Ms. 
             Hanabusa, Mr. Aguilar, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
             Bridenstine, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Fleischmann, Mr. Bishop 
             of Utah, Mr. Shuster, Mr. Gallagher, Mr. 
             Ruppersberger, and Mr. Mast):

[[Page H4937]]

  

       H.R. 2912. A bill to expand the capacity and capability of 
     the ballistic missile defense system of the United States, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mrs. NAPOLITANO (for herself and Mr. Katko):
       H.R. 2913. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     revise and extend projects relating to children and violence 
     to provide access to school-based comprehensive mental health 
     programs; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SCHNEIDER (for himself and Mr. Donovan):
       H.R. 2914. A bill to authorize assistance for anti-tunnel 
     defense capabilities for Israel; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services, and in addition to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself, Mr. Cole, Mr. Mullin, Mr. 
             Jones, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Mr. Beyer, Mr. DeFazio, Ms. DeGette, Mr. 
             Huffman, Mr. Gallego, Mrs. Torres, Ms. Norton, Ms. 
             Tsongas, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Ms. DelBene, 
             Mrs. Dingell, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Polis, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. 
             Cummings, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. 
             Hastings, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, 
             Mr. Sablan, and Ms. Hanabusa):
       H.R. 2915. A bill to repeal section 3003 of the Carl Levin 
     and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization 
     Act for Fiscal Year 2015; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for himself and Mr. 
             Blumenauer):
       H.R. 2916. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code to 
     extend and modify certain charitable tax provisions; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. GIBBS (for himself, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Dunn, Mr. 
             McKinley, Mr. Massie, Mr. Jones, Mr. Perry, Mr. 
             Barletta, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Graves of 
             Missouri, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Jenkins of West 
             Virginia, Mr. Tipton, and Mr. Collins of New York):
       H.R. 2917. A bill to amend the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act to clarify when the Administrator of the 
     Environmental Protection Agency has the authority to prohibit 
     the specification of a defined area, or deny or restrict the 
     use of a defined area for specification, as a disposal site 
     under section 404 of such Act, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. BANKS of Indiana (for himself and Mr. Lipinski):
       H.R. 2918. A bill to intensify stem cell research showing 
     evidence of substantial clinical benefit to patients, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CHABOT (for himself, Ms. Stefanik, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Takano, and 
             Mr. Swalwell of California):
       H.R. 2919. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to provide that an individual may remain eligible to 
     participate in the teacher loan forgiveness program under 
     title IV of such Act if the individual's period of 
     consecutive years of employment as a full-time teacher is 
     interrupted because the individual is the spouse of a member 
     of the Armed Forces who is relocated during the school year 
     pursuant to military orders for a permanent change of duty 
     station, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself and Mr. Young of Alaska):
       H.R. 2920. A bill to extend the principle of federalism to 
     State drug policy, provide access to medical marijuana, and 
     enable research into the medicinal properties of marijuana; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to 
     the Committees on the Judiciary, and Veterans' Affairs, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CRAMER (for himself, Mr. Polis, Mr. Coffman, Mr. 
             Peterson, Mr. Buck, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Tipton, Ms. 
             DeGette, and Mr. Kind):
       H.R. 2921. A bill to establish a vegetation management 
     pilot program on National Forest System land to better 
     protect utility infrastructure from passing wildfire, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Natural Resources, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DONOVAN (for himself, Mr. McCaul, Mr. King of 
             New York, and Mr. Fitzpatrick):
       H.R. 2922. A bill to reform and improve the Federal 
     Emergency Management Agency, the Office of Emergency 
     Communications, and the Office of Health Affairs of the 
     Department of Homeland Security, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Homeland Security, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Transportation and Infrastructure, and Energy 
     and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana (for himself, Mr. Palazzo, 
             and Mr. Richmond):
       H.R. 2923. A bill to designate the Gulf of Mexico Alliance 
     as a regional coordination partnership of Federal and State 
     actions related to the management of the Gulf of Mexico 
     ecosystem, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Natural Resources, and Science, Space, and 
     Technology, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Neal, 
             Ms. Maxine Waters of California, Mr. Deutch, Ms. 
             Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Kaptur, and Mr. Keating):
       H.R. 2924. A bill to amend the National Security Act of 
     1947 to establish the National Russian Threat Response Center 
     within the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Intelligence 
     (Permanent Select), and in addition to the Committee on 
     Appropriations, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. McGOVERN:
       H.R. 2925. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide coverage for wigs as durable medical 
     equipment under the Medicare program, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MEEHAN (for himself and Ms. Fudge):
       H.R. 2926. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to require institutions of higher education to disclose 
     hazing incidents, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. MESSER:
       H.R. 2927. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to include apprentices as members of targeted groups for 
     purposes of the work opportunity credit; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. PAYNE (for himself and Mr. Sires):
       H.R. 2928. A bill to direct the Secretary of Transportation 
     to issue regulations to require air carriers to disclose to 
     consumers the actual wheels-off and wheels-on times for 
     certain domestic passenger flight segments, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. WITTMAN (for himself and Mr. Connolly):
       H.R. 2929. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to exclude from gross income certain combat zone 
     compensation of civilian employees of the United States; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. McCARTHY:
       H. Res. 385. A resolution expressing gratitude for the 
     heroic actions of the United States Capitol Police and other 
     first responders in the attack on Members of Congress on June 
     14, 2017, and expressing hope for a full recovery for the 
     injured; considered and agreed to.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE (for herself, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Veasey, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Bishop of Georgia, Ms. Moore, Mr. Connolly, Mr. 
             Butterfield, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Cohen, 
             Mr. Kildee, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Pallone, Ms. 
             Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. 
             Vela, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Price of North 
             Carolina, Mr. Engel, Mr. Rush, Ms. McCollum, Mr. 
             Richmond, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Walz, Mrs. Demings, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Payne, Mr. Clay, Ms. Adams, Mr. 
             Evans, Mrs. Torres, Mr. Higgins of New York, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Mr. McEachin, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mr. 
             Cummings, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Danny K. Davis 
             of Illinois, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Levin, 
             Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Wilson of Florida, 
             Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Al Green of Texas, and Mr. 
             Vargas):
       H. Res. 386. A resolution recognizing June 19, 2017, as 
     this year's observance of the historical significance of 
     Juneteenth Independence Day; to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Ms. Pelosi, and Mr. Swalwell 
             of California):
       H. Res. 387. A resolution congratulating the Golden State 
     Warriors for their historic championship victory in the 2017 
     National Basketball Association Finals; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. HULTGREN (for himself and Mr. Foster):
       H. Res. 388. A resolution congratulating and honoring Fermi 
     National Accelerator Laboratory on 50 years of groundbreaking 
     discoveries; to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology.

[[Page H4938]]

  

           By Mr. NOLAN:
       H. Res. 389. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives regarding the need to reduce the influence 
     of money in politics; to the Committee on House 
     Administration, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.

                          ____________________



