

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 128 (Friday, July 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 128 (Friday, July 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6571-H6577]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:


[[Page H6572]]


  

           By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois (for himself, Ms. 
             DeGette, Mr. Doggett, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. 
             Higgins of New York, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. 
             Pascrell, Mr. Neal, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of 
             New Mexico, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Cardenas, Ms. Sewell 
             of Alabama, Mr. Levin, Mrs. Dingell, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Tonko, Mr. 
             Engel, Ms. Sanchez, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Gene Green of 
             Texas, Mr. Rush, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, 
             Mr. Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Kind, Ms. 
             Matsui, and Ms. Clarke of New York):
       H.R. 3525. A bill to amend title V of the Social Security 
     Act to reauthorize the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood 
     Home Visiting Program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Energy and Commerce, and the Budget, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ROTHFUS (for himself and Mr. Peterson):
       H.R. 3526. A bill to amend title 28, United States Code, to 
     allow the use of the Department of Justice Asset Forfeiture 
     Fund to finance United States border security measures, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BROWN of Maryland (for himself, Mr. Sarbanes, 
             and Mr. Ruppersberger):
       H.R. 3527. A bill to prohibit the use of funds to return 
     certain property and interests in property to the Government 
     of the Russian Federation; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts (for herself and Mr. 
             Mullin):
       H.R. 3528. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to require e-prescribing for coverage under part 
     D of the Medicare program of prescription drugs that are 
     controlled substances; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BRAT:
       H.R. 3529. A bill to amend the special supplemental 
     nutrition program for women, infants, and children to cover 
     certain vitamins; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. COMER (for himself, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. Polis, 
             Mr. Massie, Mr. Griffith, Mr. Young of Alaska, Mr. 
             Cramer, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Peterson, Mr. Cohen, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Schrader, Mr. 
             Perlmutter, and Mr. Barr):
       H.R. 3530. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     exclude industrial hemp from the definition of marihuana, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
     and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GOSAR (for himself, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
             Amodei, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Grijalva, and Ms. Sinema):
       H.R. 3531. A bill to amend the Radiation Exposure 
     Compensation Act for purposes of making claims under such Act 
     based on exposure to atmospheric nuclear testing, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. EVANS (for himself and Mr. McGovern):
       H.R. 3532. A bill to require the President to convert 
     private businesses and investments in order to prevent 
     conflicts of interest under Federal law, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. CARBAJAL (for himself and Mr. Curbelo of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 3533. A bill to amend the Coastal Zone Management Act 
     of 1972 to require the Secretary of Commerce to establish a 
     coastal climate change adaptation preparedness and response 
     program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Ms. DelBENE (for herself, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Cohen, 
             and Mr. Smith of Washington):
       H.R. 3534. A bill to make the Controlled Substances Act 
     inapplicable with respect to marihuana in States that have 
     legalized marijuana and have in effect a statewide regulatory 
     regime to protect certain Federal interests, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LaMALFA:
       H.R. 3535. A bill to restore Federal recognition to the 
     Ruffey Rancheria of California, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO:
       H.R. 3536. A bill to require persons who undertake 
     Federally funded research and development of drugs to enter 
     into reasonable pricing agreements with the Secretary of 
     Health and Human Services; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. PRICE of North Carolina:
       H.R. 3537. A bill to reform our government, reduce the grip 
     of special interest, and return our democracy to the American 
     people by increasing transparency and oversight of our 
     elections and government, reforming public financing for 
     Presidential elections and providing for public financing for 
     Congressional elections, and requiring States to conduct 
     Congressional redistricting through independent commissions, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on House 
     Administration, and in addition to the Committees on the 
     Judiciary, Oversight and Government Reform, Financial 
     Services, and Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. RUSH:
       H.R. 3538. A bill to amend the Truth in Lending Act to 
     create additional requirements for original and new creditors 
     of mortgage loans in the case of a sale, transfer, or 
     assignment of a mortgage loan, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. RUSH:
       H.R. 3539. A bill to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to 
     establish a procedure for the removal of a booking photograph 
     from a consumer's file, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. RUSH (for himself and Mr. Pallone):
       H.R. 3540. A bill to amend the Department of Energy 
     Organization Act to replace the current requirement for a 
     biennial energy policy plan with a Quadrennial Energy Review, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. POE of Texas:
       H.R. 3541. A bill to reauthorize the SAFER Act of 2013, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina (for himself, Mr. 
             Moulton, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, and Mr. Deutch):
       H.R. 3542. A bill to impose sanctions against Hamas for 
     gross violations of internationally recognized human rights 
     by reason of the use of civilians as human shields, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. STEWART (for himself and Mr. Tipton):
       H.R. 3543. A bill to require the Secretary of the Interior 
     to develop a categorical exclusion for covered vegetative 
     management activities carried out to establish or improve 
     habitat for greater sage-grouse and mule deer, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. LYNCH (for himself, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of 
             New York, and Mr. King of New York):
       H.R. 3544. A bill to require the disclosure of beneficial 
     ownership by a foreign person of aircraft registration, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. MURPHY of Pennsylvania (for himself, Mr. Meehan, 
             Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. Renacci, 
             and Mr. Mullin):
       H.R. 3545. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     protect the confidentiality of substance use disorder patient 
     records; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Posey, 
             Mr. Flores, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Allen, 
             Mr. Norman, Mr. Babin, Mr. Rice of South Carolina, 
             Mr. McClintock, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Cook, Mr. Chabot, 
             Mr. Wenstrup, Mr. Brat, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Ferguson, Mr. 
             Dunn, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, and Mr. Crawford):
       H.R. 3546. A bill to prohibit universal service support of 
     commercial mobile service and commercial mobile data service 
     through the Lifeline program; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. ISSA (for himself, Mr. Vargas, Mrs. Noem, Mr. 
             Allen, and Mr. Flores):
       H.R. 3547. A bill to authorize the Secretary of State to 
     establish a permanent residence in Jerusalem, Israel, for the 
     United States Ambassador to Israel, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. McCAUL (for himself, Mr. Thornberry, Mr. 
             Sessions, Mr. Bishop of Utah, Mr. Shuster, Mr. Smith 
             of Texas, Mr. Brady of Texas, Mr. Conaway, Mr. 
             Hensarling, Mr. Carter of Texas, Ms. Granger, Mr. 
             Calvert, Mr. King of New York, Ms. McSally, Mr. 
             Katko, Mr. Donovan, Mr. Ratcliffe, Mr. Higgins of 
             Louisiana, Mr. Estes of Kansas, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. 
             Olson, Mr. Burgess, Mr. Marchant, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. 
             Sam Johnson of Texas, Mr. Arrington, Mr. Culberson, 
             Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Williams, Mr. Babin, Mr. 
             Barton, Mr. Flores, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Hunter, Mr. 
             Cook, Mr. Bridenstine, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Bergman, Mr. 
             Kelly of Mississippi, Mr. Collins of New York, Mr. 
             Poliquin, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. 
             Cramer, and Mr. Loudermilk):

[[Page H6573]]

  

       H.R. 3548. A bill to make certain improvements to the 
     security of the international borders of the United States, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland 
     Security, and in addition to the Committees on Armed 
     Services, Foreign Affairs, Natural Resources, Agriculture, 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, Ways and Means, and 
     Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. PAULSEN:
       H.R. 3549. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow a refundable credit with respect to any 
     stillborn child of a taxpayer; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. LARSEN of Washington:
       H.R. 3550. A bill to amend the Elementary and Secondary 
     Education Act of 1965 to clarify that ASL students are 
     English learners; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Ms. McSALLY (for herself, Mr. Reichert, Mr. McCaul, 
             Mr. King of New York, Mr. Hurd, and Mr. Garrett):
       H.R. 3551. A bill to amend the Security and Accountability 
     for Every Port Act of 2006 to reauthorize the Customs-Trade 
     Partnership Against Terrorism Program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. CLEAVER (for himself and Mr. Yoder):
       H.R. 3552. A bill to amend the Elementary and Secondary 
     Education Act of 1965 to require that teachers, principals, 
     counselors, and other school leaders receive youth suicide 
     awareness and prevention training; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. MARINO (for himself and Mr. Perlmutter):
       H.R. 3553. A bill to amend title 11 of the United States 
     Code to increase the amount of compensation paid to chapter 7 
     bankruptcy trustees for services rendered; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself, Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Moulton, and Mr. Meehan):
       H.R. 3554. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to provide for the automatic recertification of income for 
     income-driven repayment plans, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LOUDERMILK (for himself, Mr. Meeks, Mr. 
             Hultgren, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, and Mr. 
             Zeldin):
       H.R. 3555. A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 to provide that the definition of a facility of an 
     exchange does not apply to a line of business the purpose of 
     which is not to effect or report a transaction on an 
     exchange; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. ROYCE of California (for himself and Ms. Moore):
       H.R. 3556. A bill to require Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to 
     engage in credit risk transfer transactions, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Ways and Means, and 
     Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. WALDEN (for himself, Mr. DeFazio, and Mr. 
             Newhouse):
       H.R. 3557. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     increase the number of health care professionals employed by 
     the Department of Veterans Affairs by improving the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs Education Debt Reduction 
     Program; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana (for herself and Mrs. Murphy 
             of Florida):
       H.R. 3558. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to make certain improvements relating to inspections 
     of Department of Veterans Affairs medical facilities and 
     improving care for women; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Ms. ADAMS (for herself, Mr. Smith of Washington, Ms. 
             Barragan, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Aguilar, 
             Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Ms. Judy Chu of California, 
             Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, 
             and Mr. Payne):
       H.R. 3559. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to award grants to support the access of 
     marginalized youth to sexual health services, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. AGUILAR:
       H.R. 3560. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to give borrowers an option to extend the grace period prior 
     to the beginning of the repayment period, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. ARRINGTON (for himself, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. 
             Walden, Miss Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto Rico, and Mr. 
             Dunn):
       H.R. 3561. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     permit appraisers approved by the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to make appraisals for purposes of chapter 37 of such 
     title based on inspections performed by third parties; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. ARRINGTON (for himself, Mr. O'Rourke, Miss 
             Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto Rico, and Mr. Dunn):
       H.R. 3562. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish 
     assistance for adaptations of residences of veterans in 
     rehabilitation programs under chapter 31 of such title, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. BARRAGAN (for herself, Mr. Gallego, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, and Mr. Correa):
       H.R. 3563. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to recognize the service of veterans of the armed forces 
     by providing a more navigable and accommodating pathway for 
     veterans honorably discharged from the United States military 
     to naturalize and seek citizenship, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BEYER (for himself, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Payne, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mrs. Torres, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Raskin, Mr. 
             Welch, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Shea-Porter, 
             Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Evans, Mr. Blumenauer, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Ms. Jayapal, and 
             Mr. McGovern):
       H.R. 3564. A bill to amend the Intelligence Reform and 
     Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 to authorize the Director of 
     the Federal Bureau of Investigation to revoke the security 
     clearance of political appointees in the Executive Office of 
     the President for national security purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. BLACK (for herself, Mr. Fleischmann, Mr. 
             Kustoff of Tennessee, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Stewart, Mr. 
             Gosar, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, Mrs. Blackburn, and Mr. Duncan of 
             Tennessee):
       H.R. 3565. A bill to achieve domestic energy independence 
     by empowering States to control the exploration, development, 
     and production of oil and gas on all available Federal land, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mrs. BUSTOS (for herself, Mr. Crawford, Mr. 
             Marshall, Mr. Evans, and Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire):
       H.R. 3566. A bill to strengthen resources to combat the 
     heroin and opioid epidemic in rural communities across 
     America; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. CALVERT (for himself and Mr. Takano):
       H.R. 3567. A bill to authorize the purchase of a small 
     parcel of Natural Resources Conservation Service property in 
     Riverside, California, by the Riverside Corona Resource 
     Conservation District, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. CAPUANO (for himself and Mr. Sensenbrenner):
       H.R. 3568. A bill to require manufacturers to disclose to 
     consumers the presence of event data recorders, or ``black 
     boxes'', on new automobiles, motorcycles, and autocycles, and 
     to require manufacturers to provide the consumer with the 
     option to enable and disable such devices on future 
     automobiles, motorcycles, and autocycles; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CAPUANO (for himself, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Mr. Castro of Texas, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Keating, Mr. 
             Kennedy, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Lynch, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Neal, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. 
             Veasey, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Cohen, and Mr. 
             DeSaulnier):
       H.R. 3569. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and 
     Safe Streets Act of 1968 to provide death benefits for campus 
     police officers; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CARTER of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Babin, Mr. 
             Farenthold, Mr. Fortenberry, Mr. McKinley, Mr. 
             Loudermilk, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Yoho, and Mr. Flores):
       H.R. 3570. A bill to amend part A of title II of the Clean 
     Air Act to exclude trailers and other vehicles that rely on a 
     connection to a self-propelled vehicle from the definition of 
     a motor vehicle; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. CASTOR of Florida:
       H.R. 3571. A bill to amend title III of the Americans with 
     Disabilities Act of 1990 to require a plaintiff to provide a 
     defendant with an opportunity to correct a violation of such 
     title voluntarily before the plaintiff may commence a civil 
     action, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Ms. Bass, Ms. Clarke of 
             New York, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, and Mr. Ellison):
       H.R. 3572. A bill to carry out an income-contingent 
     repayment program for Federal Interest Free Education Loans 
     for undergraduate students, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania,

[[Page H6574]]

             Mr. Evans, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Nolan, and Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 3573. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to increase the deduction allowed for student loan 
     interest and the limitation based on income, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts:
       H.R. 3574. A bill to amend the Department of Education 
     Organization Act and the Higher Education Act of 1965 to 
     require publication of information relating to religious 
     exemptions to the requirements of title IX of the Education 
     Amendments of 1972, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself and Mr. Ross):
       H.R. 3575. A bill to provide standards for physical 
     condition and management of housing receiving assistance 
     payments under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 
     1937; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. COLLINS of New York:
       H.R. 3576. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     limit the authority of States and localities to regulate 
     conduct, or impose penalties or taxes, in relation to rifles 
     or shotguns; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. COSTA (for himself, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Michelle 
             Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, and Ms. DelBene):
       H.R. 3577. A bill to amend the Food and Nutrition Act of 
     2008 to establish a competitive grant program to provide 
     grants to States to carry out targeted employment and 
     training projects; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
       H.R. 3578. A bill to permit the expungement of records of 
     certain nonviolent criminal offenses; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. DeLAURO (for herself, Ms. Moore, and Mr. Cohen):
       H.R. 3579. A bill to make a supplemental appropriation for 
     the Public Health Emergency Fund, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Appropriations, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Budget, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. DeSAULNIER:
       H.R. 3580. A bill to promote State requirements for local 
     educational agencies and public elementary and secondary 
     schools relating to the prevention and treatment of 
     concussions suffered by students; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. DeSAULNIER:
       H.R. 3581. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to exclude Federal Pell Grants from gross income; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. DINGELL (for herself, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Quigley, 
             Ms. McCollum, and Mr. Rush):
       H.R. 3582. A bill to prohibit the closure, consolidation, 
     or elimination of offices of the Environmental Protection 
     Agency; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Agriculture, Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and Science, Space, and Technology, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ELLISON:
       H.R. 3583. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow an above-the-line deduction for attorney fees 
     and costs in connection with civil claim awards; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. ESPAILLAT (for himself, Mr. Serrano, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Rogers of Kentucky, and Ms. Norton):
       H.R. 3584. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to extend certain credits against tax related to 
     empowerment zones; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. FARENTHOLD (for himself and Mr. Gohmert):
       H.R. 3585. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     make it a criminal offense to knowingly make a request to 
     access classified information concerning a United States 
     person to be unmimized pursuant to the Foreign Intelligence 
     Surveillance Act for a reason other than an authorized reason 
     under that Act, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. FERGUSON (for himself and Mr. Byrne):
       H.R. 3586. A bill to amend the Occupational Safety and 
     Health Act of 1970 with respect to labor organization 
     representation during physical inspections of workplaces; to 
     the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. GOMEZ:
       H.R. 3587. A bill to provide for the collection and 
     assessment of intelligence regarding the efforts of foreign 
     powers to gain influence through the financial interests of 
     the President and close family members and associates of the 
     President; to the Committee on Intelligence (Permanent 
     Select).
           By Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana (for himself, Mr. Richmond, 
             Mr. Byrne, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. Weber of 
             Texas, Mr. Clay, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. 
             Austin Scott of Georgia, and Mr. Higgins of 
             Louisiana):
       H.R. 3588. A bill to amend the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
     Conservation and Management Act to provide for management of 
     red snapper in the Gulf of Mexico, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. GRAVES of Missouri:
       H.R. 3589. A bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to 
     end speculation on the current cost of multilingual services 
     provided by the Federal Government, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. GRIJALVA:
       H.R. 3590. A bill to restore, reaffirm, and reconcile 
     environmental justice and civil rights, provide for the 
     establishment of the Interagency Working Group on 
     Environmental Justice Compliance and Enforcement, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in addition to the Committees on the Judiciary, and Natural 
     Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. GUTIERREZ (for himself, Ms. Lofgren, Ms. Roybal-
             Allard, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Ms. 
             Pelosi, Mr. Hoyer, Mr. Crowley, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. 
             Conyers, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Judy Chu of California, 
             Mr. Aguilar, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Bishop of 
             Georgia, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Brown of 
             Maryland, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. 
             Butterfield, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Cardenas, 
             Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. 
             Castro of Texas, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Clay, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mr. Correa, Mr. Courtney, Mr. Crist, Mr. 
             Cummings, Ms. DeGette, Ms. DeLauro, Ms. DelBene, Mr. 
             Deutch, Mr. Doggett, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Mr. Evans, Mr. Foster, Ms. Frankel of 
             Florida, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Gomez, Mr. 
             Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. Gene 
             Green of Texas, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Hastings, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Costa, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Khanna, Mr. 
             Kihuen, Mr. Langevin, Ms. Lee, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, 
             Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Ben 
             Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, Ms. Matsui, Ms. McCollum, Mr. McEachin, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Meng, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Nadler, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Pallone, Mr. Payne, Mr. Perlmutter, Ms. Pingree, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Polis, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Mr. 
             Quigley, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. 
             Rush, Mr. Sablan, Mr. Sarbanes, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Schrader, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. Serrano, Ms. 
             Shea-Porter, Mr. Sherman, Mr. Sires, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, Mr. Soto, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. 
             Thompson of California, Ms. Titus, Mr. Tonko, Mrs. 
             Torres, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Vela, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Welch, Ms. Wilson 
             of Florida, Mr. Yarmuth, and Ms. Bass):
       H.R. 3591. A bill to amend the Illegal Immigration Reform 
     and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 to permit States to 
     determine State residency for higher education purposes and 
     to authorize the cancellation of removal and adjustment of 
     status of certain aliens who are United States residents and 
     who entered the United States as children, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. JAYAPAL (for herself, Mr. Wilson of South 
             Carolina, Mr. Bera, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. 
             Correa, Mr. Crowley, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Ms. 
             Gabbard, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. 
             Khanna, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Ms. Lee, Ms. Meng, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Suozzi, Mrs. 
             Torres, Mrs. Watson Coleman, and Mr. Nadler):
       H.R. 3592. A bill To amend the Public Health Service Act 
     and the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 
     1990 to provide for research and improvement of 
     cardiovascular health among the South Asian population of the 
     United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana:
       H.R. 3593. A bill to amend the Wilderness Act to authorize 
     U.S. Customs and Border Protection to conduct certain 
     activities to secure the international land borders of the 
     United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas (for himself and Ms. 
             Jenkins of Kansas):

[[Page H6575]]

  

       H.R. 3594. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to protect the Social Security Trust Funds from 
     overpayment discharge during bankruptcy proceedings, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for himself and Ms. 
             Sewell of Alabama):
       H.R. 3595. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide a credit to employers who provide paid family 
     and medical leave, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for himself and Mr. 
             Kind):
       H.R. 3596. A bill to amend the Employee Retirement Income 
     Security Act of 1974 to adjust single-employer premiums, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committees on Rules, and 
     the Budget, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KILMER (for himself, Mr. Young of Alaska, Mr. 
             Cole, Mr. Heck, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Pocan, Ms. Moore, 
             Mr. Polis, Mrs. Torres, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New 
             Mexico, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Cook, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             Gallego, Ms. Slaughter, Mrs. Dingell, and Ms. 
             DelBene):
       H.R. 3597. A bill to amend the Coastal Zone Management Act 
     of 1972 to authorize grants to Indian Tribes to further 
     achievement of Tribal coastal zone objectives, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KIND (for himself and Mr. Wittman):
       H.R. 3598. A bill to amend the Neotropical Migratory Bird 
     Conservation Act to reauthorize the Act; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa:
       H.R. 3599. A bill to prevent States and local jurisdictions 
     from interfering with the production and distribution of 
     agricultural products in interstate or foreign commerce; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. KING of Iowa:
       H.R. 3600. A bill to amend title 13, United States Code, to 
     require that any questionnaire used in determining the 
     decennial census of population shall contain an option for 
     respondents to indicate citizenship status or lawful presence 
     in the United States, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee:
       H.R. 3601. A bill to amend the Consumer Financial 
     Protection Act of 2010 to clarify data and information 
     sharing requirements regarding consumer complaints, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Ms. DeGette, Mr. Ellison, Mr. 
             Tonko, Mr. Takano, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             McNerney, Ms. Speier, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. 
             Deutch, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Aguilar, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. 
             Larsen of Washington, Mr. Kihuen, Ms. Clarke of New 
             York, Mr. Khanna, Ms. Titus, Mr. Nadler, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Price of North 
             Carolina, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. 
             Schiff, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, 
             Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Carbajal, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Evans, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Welch, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Judy 
             Chu of California, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Lewis of 
             Georgia, Ms. Adams, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Frankel of 
             Florida, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. 
             Pocan, and Mr. Serrano):
       H.R. 3602. A bill to provide for the overall health and 
     well-being of young people, including the promotion of 
     lifelong sexual health and healthy relationships, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LEVIN (for himself and Mr. Thompson of 
             California):
       H.R. 3603. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to prevent earnings stripping of corporations which are 
     related to inverted corporations; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. LOEBSACK:
       H.R. 3604. A bill to establish a National Flood Research 
     and Education Center to provide research, data, and 
     recommendations on physical science, social science, economic 
     analysis, policy analysis, risk analysis, monitoring, 
     predicting, and planning as they relate to flooding and 
     flood-related issues; to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MacARTHUR (for himself, Mr. Allen, Mr. Lance, 
             and Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 3605. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for a presumption of herbicide exposure for certain 
     veterans who served in Korea; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself and 
             Mr. Ellison):
       H.R. 3606. A bill to amend the Truth in Lending Act to 
     establish fair and transparent practices related to the 
     marketing and provision of overdraft coverage programs at 
     depository institutions, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. McCLINTOCK (for himself and Mr. Tipton):
       H.R. 3607. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the 
     Interior to establish fees for medical services provided in 
     units of the National Park System, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. McCLINTOCK (for himself, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. 
             LaMalfa, Mr. Jones, Mr. Gianforte, and Mr. Tipton):
       H.R. 3608. A bill to amend the Endangered Species Act of 
     1973 to require publication on the Internet of the basis for 
     determinations that species are endangered species or 
     threatened species, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. MURPHY of Florida (for herself, Mr. Soto, Mr. 
             Curbelo of Florida, Mr. Crist, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, 
             Mr. Hastings, and Ms. Wilson of Florida):
       H.R. 3609. A bill to amend the Elementary and Secondary 
     Education Act of 1965 to provide that children that have 
     relocated from Puerto Rico to the States are fully considered 
     for purposes of State allotments under the English language 
     acquisition grants; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mrs. NOEM:
       H.R. 3610. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     permit the donation of hay harvested under the conservation 
     reserve program to certain disaster areas, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. PAULSEN (for himself, Mr. Kind, and Mr. 
             Marchant):
       H.R. 3611. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to create incentives for healthcare providers to 
     promote quality healthcare outcomes, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. PAYNE:
       H.R. 3612. A bill to amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 
     1961 to provide assistance to expand, improve, support, and 
     promote primary and secondary education for displaced 
     children, including girls, from areas designated by the 
     Department of State as areas of conflict; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. PAYNE (for himself, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Evans, Ms. 
             Speier, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Higgins of New York, 
             Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Moore, Mr. McGovern, Mr. David 
             Scott of Georgia, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Sires, 
             Ms. Fudge, Ms. Norton, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Hastings, and 
             Mr. Pallone):
       H.R. 3613. A bill to authorize the Director of the Bureau 
     of Justice Assistance to make grants to States, units of 
     local government, and gun dealers to conduct gun buyback 
     programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. POLIQUIN:
       H.R. 3614. A bill to direct the Administrator of General 
     Services to establish a program to sell Federal buildings 
     that are not utilized to provide revenue for increases in 
     social security benefits and military retirement pay, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and in addition to the Committees on Ways and Means, 
     and Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. POSEY:
       H.R. 3615. A bill to direct the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to conduct or support a comprehensive study 
     comparing total health outcomes, including risk of autism, in 
     vaccinated populations in the United States with such 
     outcomes in unvaccinated populations in the United States, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. RICHMOND:
       H.R. 3616. A bill to amend the Workforce Innovation and 
     Opportunity Act to provide grants to States for summer 
     employment programs for youth; to the Committee on Education 
     and the Workforce.
           By Mr. RICHMOND (for himself, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             Conyers, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Blumenauer, and Mr. Rush):
       H.R. 3617. A bill to amend title 39, United States Code, to 
     provide that the United States Postal Service may provide 
     certain basic financial services, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. RICHMOND:
       H.R. 3618. A bill to amend the Juvenile Justice and 
     Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 to establish the Office of 
     School Discipline Policy, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.

[[Page H6576]]

  

           By Mr. RUIZ:
       H.R. 3619. A bill to authorize the Export-Import Bank of 
     the United States to use 3 percent of its profits for 
     administrative expenses; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. RUIZ (for himself, Mr. Carbajal, and Mr. 
             Kihuen):
       H.R. 3620. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to expand eligibility for the refundable credit for 
     coverage under a qualified health plan; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. RUSSELL:
       H.R. 3621. A bill to require subscribers to services 
     supported through the Lifeline program of the Federal 
     Communications Commission to reapply for such services on an 
     annual basis; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. SEWELL of Alabama (for herself, Ms. Clarke of 
             New York, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, 
             Mr. Clay, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Mr. Soto, Mr. Evans, Mrs. Dingell, 
             Mr. Beyer, Mr. Moulton, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Kilmer, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Schiff, and Mr. Quigley):
       H.R. 3622. A bill to direct the Election Assistance 
     Commission to establish the E-Security Fellows Program to 
     provide individuals who work on political campaigns with 
     training in the best practices for election cybersecurity, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Ms. SEWELL of Alabama (for herself, Ms. Clarke of 
             New York, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, 
             Mr. Clay, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Mr. Soto, Mr. Evans, Mrs. Dingell, 
             and Mr. Beyer):
       H.R. 3623. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to secure and heighten the integrity of elections, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on House Administration, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Homeland Security, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SMITH of Washington (for himself, Mr. Grijalva, 
             Mr. Cartwright, Ms. McCollum, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Heck, and Mr. Blumenauer):
       H.R. 3624. A bill to authorize voluntary grazing permit 
     retirement on Federal lands managed by the Department of 
     Agriculture or the Department of the Interior where livestock 
     grazing is impractical, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. STIVERS (for himself and Mr. Walz):
       H.R. 3625. A bill to require Senate confirmation of 
     Inspector General of the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
     Protection, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Financial Services, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WILLIAMS:
       H.R. 3626. A bill to amend the Bank Service Company Act to 
     provide improvements with respect to State banking agencies, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Ms. WILSON of Florida:
       H.R. 3627. A bill to amend the Workforce Innovation and 
     Opportunity Act to provide for the establishment of Youth 
     Corps programs and provide for wider dissemination of the 
     Youth Corps model; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Ms. WILSON of Florida:
       H.R. 3628. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow employers a credit against income tax for 
     employees who participate in qualified apprenticeship 
     programs; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. WILSON of Florida:
       H.R. 3629. A bill to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
     1938 to ensure that employees are not misclassified as non-
     employees, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. WILSON of Florida:
       H.R. 3630. A bill to establish student loan borrowers' 
     rights to basic consumer protections, reasonable and flexible 
     repayment options, access to earned credentials, and 
     effective loan cancellation in exchange for public service, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committees on Ways and 
     Means, the Judiciary, and Oversight and Government Reform, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. WILSON of Florida:
       H.R. 3631. A bill to amend the Family and Medical Leave Act 
     of 1993 and title 5, United States Code, to allow employees 
     to take, as additional leave, parental involvement leave to 
     participate in or attend their children's and grandchildren's 
     educational and extracurricular activities and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, 
     and in addition to the Committees on Oversight and Government 
     Reform, and House Administration, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. YODER (for himself and Mrs. Murphy of Florida):
       H.R. 3632. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to make the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit fully 
     refundable, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. McEACHIN (for himself, Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Evans, Mr. 
             Hastings, Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Ms. Barragan, and Ms. Jayapal):
       H.J. Res. 116. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States prohibiting Congress 
     and the States from abridging the right of citizens to 
     affordable, quality health care; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. ADAMS (for herself and Mr. Conyers):
       H. Con. Res. 75. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of the Congress that homelessness in America should be 
     eliminated; to the Committee on Financial Services, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SHERMAN (for himself, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Barragan, 
             Ms. Titus, Mr. Swalwell of California, Ms. Shea-
             Porter, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Cook, Ms. Jackson 
             Lee, and Mr. Donovan):
       H. Con. Res. 76. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of the Congress that the current Federal income tax deduction 
     for interest paid on debt secured by a first or second home 
     and for property taxes should not be further restricted; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania (for himself, 
             Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Evans):
       H. Res. 485. A resolution commemorating the 40th 
     anniversary of the ALS Association Greater Philadelphia 
     Chapter; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself, Mr. Weber of Texas, 
             Mr. Rohrabacher, Ms. Judy Chu of California, and Mr. 
             Sessions):
       H. Res. 486. A resolution calling on the Government of Iraq 
     to compensate the former residents of Camp Ashraf for their 
     assets seized by groups affiliated with the Government of 
     Iraq; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. POE of Texas:
       H. Res. 487. A resolution urging all Universities to 
     designate and maintain a sexual assault coordinator on staff 
     who can be accessed by student victims of domestic violence, 
     dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking on campus and in 
     the surrounding community; to the Committee on Education and 
     the Workforce.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself and Ms. Jayapal):
       H. Res. 488. A resolution of inquiry requesting the 
     President and directing the Attorney General to transmit, 
     respectively, certain documents to the House of 
     Representatives relating to the removal of former Federal 
     Bureau of Investigation Director James Comey; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. WALDEN (for himself, Mr. Ryan of Wisconsin, Ms. 
             Pelosi, Mr. McCarthy, Mr. Hoyer, Mr. Pallone, Mr. 
             Burgess, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. Brady of Texas, 
             Mr. Neal, Mr. Tiberi, and Mr. Levin):
       H. Res. 489. A resolution honoring Edward G. Grossman for 
     his distinguished public service and professional assistance 
     to the House of Representatives; to the Committee on House 
     Administration.
           By Ms. DeLAURO (for herself, Mr. Ellison, and Ms. Lee):
       H. Res. 490. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of ``National Diaper Need Awareness Week``; to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. DUFFY (for himself, Mr. Grothman, and Mr. 
             Perlmutter):
       H. Res. 491. A resolution a resolution affirming and 
     recognizing the Khmer, Laotian, Hmong, and the other ethnic 
     groups commonly referred to as Montagnards of Cambodia and 
     Laos who supported and defended of the United States Armed 
     Forces and freedom in Southeast Asia; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas (for himself, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             Ms. Bass, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. Bishop of 
             Georgia, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. 
             Carson of Indiana, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Clay, 
             Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Clyburn, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Ms. 
             Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Ellison, Mr. 
             Evans, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Lawson of 
             Florida, Ms. Lee, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Cummings, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Mr. McEachin, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Soto,

[[Page H6577]]

             Mr. Correa, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, 
             Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Velazquez, 
             Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Cardenas, and Mr. Castro of 
             Texas):
       H. Res. 492. A resolution expressing concern for the 
     separation of Jose Escobar from his wife and children as a 
     result of his deportation, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI (for himself and Mr. Hultgren):
       H. Res. 493. A resolution recognizing the dangers of 
     distracted driving; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H. Res. 494. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of August 22, 2017, as national ``Chuck Brown 
     Day'' and honoring his contributions to music and to the 
     District of Columbia; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia (for himself, Ms. Eshoo, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Miss Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto Rico, 
             Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Marshall, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Mr. Evans, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Ms. 
             Norton, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Butterfield, Mrs. 
             Watson Coleman, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, 
             Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Ms. Fudge, and Ms. Speier):
       H. Res. 495. A resolution recognizing the seriousness of 
     Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) and expressing support for 
     the designation of the month of September 2017 as ``PCOS 
     Awareness Month''; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.

                          ____________________



