

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 128 (Friday, July 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 128 (Friday, July 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6538-H6540]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   VETERANS' ACCESS TO CHILD CARE ACT

  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and 
pass the bill (H.R. 95) to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide child care 
assistance to veterans receiving certain medical services provided by 
the Department of Veterans Affairs, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                                H.R. 95

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Veterans' Access to Child 
     Care Act''.

     SEC. 2. CHILD CARE ASSISTANCE FOR VETERANS RECEIVING MENTAL 
                   HEALTH CARE AND OTHER INTENSIVE HEALTH CARE 
                   SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
                   AFFAIRS.

       (a) In General.--Subchapter III of chapter 17 of title 38, 
     United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
     following new section:

     ``Sec. 1730B. Child care assistance for veterans receiving 
       mental health care and other intensive health care services

       ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall provide child care 
     assistance to an eligible veteran for any period that the 
     veteran--
       ``(1) receives covered health care services at a facility 
     of the Department; and
       ``(2) is required travel to and return from such facility 
     for the receipt of such health care services.
       ``(b) Child Care Assistance.--(1) Child care assistance 
     provided under this section may include any of the following:
       ``(A) A stipend for the payment of child care offered by a 
     licensed child care center (either directly or through a 
     voucher program) which shall be, to the extent practicable, 
     modeled after the Department of Veterans Affairs Child Care 
     Subsidy Program established pursuant to section 590 of title 
     40.
       ``(B) Direct provision of child care at an on-site facility 
     of the Department.
       ``(C) A payment made directly to a private child care 
     agency.
       ``(D) A collaboration with a facility or program of another 
     Federal department or agency.
       ``(E) Such other form of assistance as the Secretary 
     considers appropriate.
       ``(2) In the case that child care assistance under this 
     section is provided as a stipend under paragraph (1)(A), such 
     stipend shall cover the full cost of such child care.
       ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
       ``(1) The term `eligible veteran' means a veteran who--
       ``(A) is the primary caretaker of a child or children; and
       ``(B) is--
       ``(i) receiving covered health care services from the 
     Department; or
       ``(ii) in need of covered health care services, and but for 
     lack of child care services, would receive such covered 
     health care services from the Department.
       ``(2) The term `covered health care services' means--
       ``(A) regular mental health care services;
       ``(B) intensive mental health care services; or
       ``(C) such other intensive health care services that the 
     Secretary determines that provision of assistance to the 
     veteran to obtain child care would improve access to such 
     health care services by the veteran.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
     beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to section 1730A the following new item:

``1730B. Child care assistance for veterans receiving mental health 
              care and other intensive health care services.''.

     SEC. 3. EXTENSION OF REDUCTION IN AMOUNT OF PENSION FURNISHED 
                   BY DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS FOR CERTAIN 
                   VETERANS COVERED BY MEDICAID PLANS FOR SERVICES 
                   FURNISHED BY NURSING FACILITIES.

       Section 5503(d)(7) of title 38, United States Code, is 
     amended by striking ``September 30, 2024'' and inserting 
     ``September 30, 2026''.

     SEC. 4. EXTENSION OF REQUIREMENT FOR COLLECTION OF FEES FOR 
                   HOUSING LOANS GUARANTEED BY SECRETARY OF 
                   VETERANS AFFAIRS.

       Section 3729(b)(2) of title 38, United States Code, is 
     amended--
       (1) in subparagraph (A)--
       (A) in clause (iii), by striking ``September 30, 2024'' and 
     inserting ``December 31, 2024''; and
       (B) in clause (iv), by striking ``September 30, 2024'' and 
     inserting ``December 31, 2024'';
       (2) in subparagraph (B)--
       (A) in clause (i), by striking ``September 30, 2024'' and 
     inserting ``December 31, 2024''; and
       (B) in clause (ii), by striking ``September 30, 2024'' and 
     inserting ``December 31, 2024'';
       (3) in subparagraph (C)--
       (A) in clause (i), by striking ``September 30, 2024'' and 
     inserting ``December 31, 2024''; and
       (B) in clause (ii), by striking ``September 30, 2024'' and 
     inserting ``December 31, 2024''; and
       (4) in subparagraph (D)--
       (A) in clause (i), by striking ``September 30, 2024'' and 
     inserting ``December 31, 2024''; and
       (B) in clause (ii), by striking ``September 30, 2024'' and 
     inserting ``December 31, 2024''.


[[Page H6539]]


  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Tennessee (Mr. Roe) and the gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. Walz) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Tennessee.


                             General Leave

  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all 
Members have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their 
remarks and to include extraneous material.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Tennessee?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 95, as amended, the 
Veterans' Access to Child Care Act. This bill would make the Department 
of Veterans Affairs' successful pilot program to provide childcare 
assistance to veterans seeking mental or other intensive healthcare 
services through the VA healthcare system permanent.
  I have been a ``Doctor Dad'' myself, and I know firsthand how 
difficult it can be to manage childcare responsibilities on top of 
everything else.
  We know that the lack of childcare is a barrier to care for many 
patients and that assisting veteran parents, grandparents, and 
guardians in finding childcare opportunities while they are attending 
VA appointments will relieve a major stress point and increase access 
to care.
  I am grateful to Congresswoman Julia Brownley, the ranking member of 
our Subcommittee on Health, for her leadership in sponsoring the 
Veterans' Access to Child Care Act.
  I am proud to support this bill and urge my colleagues to do so as 
well.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. WALZ. Mr. Speaker I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  I rise in support of H.R. 95, as amended, offered by the Subcommittee 
on Health Ranking Member Julia Brownley.
  Mr. Speaker, to increase access, we must eliminate barriers, and this 
amendment in the nature of a substitute does exactly that. The 
Veterans' Access to Child Care Act assists those veterans who are also 
parents to access the healthcare they need by allowing the VA to 
provide childcare assistance to eligible veterans.
  Representative Brownley's bill is essential to ensuring all veterans 
have that access, and I appreciate her hard work to make it a reality. 
I urge my colleagues to support the amendment in the nature of a 
substitute.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. WALZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. Brownley), the author of this piece of legislation.
  Ms. BROWNLEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from 
Minnesota, our ranking member, and the gentleman from Tennessee, our 
chairman, for their support of this bill and for their tireless 
advocacy on behalf of our Nation's veterans.
  I rise today in support of H.R. 95, the Veterans' Access to Child 
Care Act, which will break down a barrier to care many veterans with 
children face. This is especially problematic for women veterans, who 
are often the primary caretakers of young children and a rapidly 
growing segment of the veteran population.
  According to a 2015 VA study, 42 percent of women who use the VA said 
it is difficult to find childcare that would allow them to attend 
medical appointments, and for those who can, that care is often 
unaffordable.
  The average cost of childcare in my home State of California, for 
instance, is more than $13,000 a year. As the post-9/11 generation 
continue to start their families, more and more veterans will face the 
unacceptable choice between caring for their children and getting the 
healthcare they need.
  Without affordable childcare options, veterans can miss their 
appointments, including critical mental health appointments, that 
impact their long-term well-being. It is just common sense: better 
access to childcare will lead to better access to care, which will 
ultimately result in better outcomes for our Nation's veterans.
  The VA currently runs a successful childcare pilot program at several 
locations around the country that benefits female and male veterans of 
all eras. My legislation will make that program permanent and expand it 
nationwide, ensuring that no veteran will have to miss a VA health 
appointment because of a lack of access of childcare.
  I want to thank my colleague, Congressman Brian Higgins, for his 
steadfast support of this bill and all of my colleagues on the VA 
Committee who have backed this proposal every step of the way.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support this legislation 
and help ensure that veterans do not have to choose between caring for 
their children and getting the healthcare they need and deserve.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I 
reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. WALZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  Again, the Chair heard the reasons for this. I thank the gentlewoman 
for authoring this needed piece of legislation and urge my colleagues 
to support its passage.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, once again, I encourage all 
Members to support this legislation.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 95, the 
``Veterans' Access to Child Care Act,'' which makes permanent the VA's 
Child Care Pilot Program and expands it so that all veterans who are 
primary caretakers have a safe, reliable, and cost-free option for 
child care when they use VA healthcare.
  As the founder and chair of the Congressional Children's Caucus, I 
fully understand the importance of having access to affordable and safe 
child care.
  The bill provides child care assistance to an eligible veteran for 
any period that the veteran receives covered health care services at a 
VA facility, and is required to travel to and return from such facility 
for the receipt of such services.
  My own city of Houston is home to the second largest veterans' 
community in the United States in terms of resident veterans.
  The U.S. Census Bureau recorded that Houston is home to approximately 
282,000 veterans, which is almost one-fifth of the state's veteran 
population.
  The Michael E. DeBakey VA Medical Center in the city of Houston has 
111,189 veterans enrolled in the center.
  For these veterans in Houston and veterans across the country, H.R. 
95 provides access to child care for veterans receiving mental health 
services and other intensive health care services at VA facilities.
  The VA reported that it had provided free childcare to 10,000 
children through the pilot program and that veterans were consistently 
``completely satisfied'' with the services received.
  H.R. 95 ensures that veterans continue to get the care they have 
earned and deserve, and that includes ensuring that those seeking 
treatment at VA medical facilities do not miss appointments because 
they do not have access to safe and reliable child care.
  The lack of convenient and affordable child care has prevented 
veterans from getting the medical care they need.
  The cost of full time infant care across the United States in 2012 
ranged from $4,600 to $20,200 a year.
  The cost of full time care for a 4 year old ranged from $3,900 to 
$15,450.
  Of those seeking childcare, 89 percent were looking for full time 
care and only 11 percent were looking for part-time care.
  Parents who serve as the primary care taker of a child should not 
have to sacrifice their own health to find safe and reliable child 
care.
  We must remove barriers that impede veterans' access to health care.
  Currently, the Child Care Pilot Program offers free child care for 
qualified veterans using VA healthcare services at a limited number of 
participating sites around the United States.
  Congress has reauthorized this popular pilot program three times in 
separate bills, but it is time to make this program permanent.
  I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important 
legislation.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. Roe) that the House suspend the rules and 
pass the bill, H.R. 95, as amended.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

[[Page H6540]]

  

                          ____________________



