

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 75 (Tuesday, May 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 75 (Tuesday, May 2, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H3066-H3067]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. VELA (for himself, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, 
             Mr. Richmond, Ms. McSally, Mr. Correa, and Ms. 
             Barragan):
       H.R. 2281. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to reauthorize the Border Enforcement Security Task 
     Force program within the Department of Homeland Security, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mrs. Bustos, Ms. 
             Brownley of California, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Crowley, Ms. Frankel of 
             Florida, Mr. Correa, Mr. Evans, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Beyer, Ms. Blunt Rochester, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. Peters, Mrs. 
             Lawrence, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. Gallego, Mr. 
             Castro of Texas, Mr. Aguilar, Mr. Foster, Mr. Himes, 
             Mr. Levin, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Ms. Meng, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. Barragan, Mr. 
             O'Rourke, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. 
             Huffman, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Capuano, 
             Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Soto, Mr. 
             Bera, Mr. Schneider, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Larson of 
             Connecticut, Mr. Kind, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mr. 
             Takano, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Loebsack, Ms. 
             Shea-Porter, Mr. Norcross, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. 
             Cooper, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Jeffries, Mrs. Napolitano, 
             Mr. Espaillat, Mr. Delaney, Mr. Hoyer, Mrs. Torres, 
             Ms. Tsongas, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Polis, Mr. Gonzalez of 
             Texas, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Lowenthal, 
             Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. 
             Yarmuth, Mr. Payne, Mrs. Beatty, Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Gottheimer, Ms. Michelle 
             Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, 
             Ms. Adams, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Suozzi, 
             Mr. Kildee, Mr. Panetta, Mr. Thompson of California, 
             Ms. Pelosi, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Pallone, 
             Mrs. Demings, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, 
             Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Kihuen, Mr. McEachin, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. 
             Neal, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Ms. Rosen, Ms. Hanabusa, 
             Mr. Heck, Mr. Crist, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. 
             Vela, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Ms. Castor of 
             Florida, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Langevin, Mr. 
             Butterfield, Mr. Costa, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Price 
             of North Carolina, Mr. Nadler, Ms. DeGette, Mr. 
             Larsen of Washington, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, Ms. Norton, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, 
             Ms. Pingree, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Sherman, Ms. Kaptur, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Rush, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mr. 
             Peterson, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. 
             Meeks, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. 
             Bass, Ms. Moore, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Smith 
             of Washington, Mr. McNerney, Ms. Lee, Mr. Lynch, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Welch, Mr. Doggett, Mrs. Carolyn B. 
             Maloney of New York, Ms. Matsui, Mr. Walz, Mr. 
             Visclosky, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Sires, Mr. 
             Al Green of Texas, Mr. Courtney, Mr. Keating, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Serrano, Mrs. Lowey, Mr. Nolan, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Bishop of Georgia, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Sablan, Ms. 
             DeLauro, Mr. Ruppersberger, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Clay, Mr. Schrader, Mr. 
             Garamendi, Ms. Bordallo, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Sarbanes, 
             Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Quigley, Mr. 
             Higgins of New York, Mr. Engel, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Titus, 
             Ms. Speier, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Ms. Eddie 
             Bernice Johnson of Texas, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Gene 
             Green of Texas, Mr. Clyburn, Mr. Cuellar, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Ms. 
             Plaskett, and Mr. Richmond):
       H.R. 2282. A bill to prohibit discrimination on the basis 
     of sex, gender identity, and sexual orientation, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Education and the Workforce, 
     Financial Services, Oversight and Government Reform, and 
     House Administration, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi (for himself, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Keating, 
             Mr. Payne, Mr. Vela, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Correa, 
             Mrs. Demings, Ms. Barragan, and Miss Rice of New 
             York):
       H.R. 2283. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to improve morale within the Department of Homeland 
     Security workforce by conferring new responsibilities to the 
     Chief Human Capital Officer, establishing an employee 
     engagement steering committee, requiring action plans, and 
     authorizing an annual employee award program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. LABRADOR (for himself, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Jody B. 
             Hice of Georgia, and Mr. LaMalfa):
       H.R. 2284. A bill to amend title 54, United States Code, to 
     provide for congressional and State approval of national 
     monuments and restrictions on the use of national monuments; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. ROE of Tennessee (for himself and Mr. Hoyer):
       H.R. 2285. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     increase the preference given, in awarding certain allergies 
     and reversible lower airway disorders-related grants, to 
     States that allow trained school personnel to administer 
     rescue medications for allergies and reversible lower airway 
     disorders, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas (for himself, Mr. Wittman, 
             Mr. Lowenthal, and Mr. Poe of Texas):
       H.R. 2286. A bill to authorize the Secretary of 
     Transportation to designate certain entities as centers of 
     excellence for domestic maritime workforce training and 
     education, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. TIPTON:
       H.R. 2287. A bill to require the Secretary of the Interior 
     to develop a strategy to relocate the headquarters of the 
     Bureau of Land Management from Washington, DC, to a western 
     State in a manner that will save the maximum amount of 
     taxpayer money practicable, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BOST (for himself, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Mr. 
             Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Walz, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. 
             Takano, Mr. Coffman, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. 
             Wenstrup, Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mrs. 
             Radewagen, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Poliquin, Miss Rice of 
             New York, Mr. Dunn, Mr. Correa, Mr. Arrington, Mr. 
             Sablan, Mr. Rutherford, Mr. Peters, Mr. Higgins of 
             Louisiana, Mr. Bergman, Mr. Banks of Indiana, Miss 
             Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto Rico, and Ms. Titus):
       H.R. 2288. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     reform the rights and processes relating to appeals of 
     decisions regarding claims for benefits under the laws 
     administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Ms. Norton, Ms. Clarke of 
             New York, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Lee, and Ms. 
             Moore):
       H.R. 2289. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide tax incentives for the establishment of 
     supermarkets in certain underserved areas; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. DeLAURO (for herself, Mr. Cole, Mr. Mullin, and 
             Ms. DeGette):
       H.R. 2290. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide a standard definition of therapeutic family 
     care services in Medicaid; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. DUFFY:
       H.R. 2291. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to expand the coverage of telehealth services 
     under the Medicare program, to provide coverage for home-
     based monitoring for congestive heart failure and chronic 
     obstructive pulmonary disease under such program, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. FASO (for himself, Mr. Espaillat, Ms. Meng, Mr. 
             Nadler,

[[Page H3067]]

             Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Engel, Mr. Tonko, Mr. 
             Donovan, and Mr. Collins of New York):
       H.R. 2292. A bill to extend a project of the Federal Energy 
     Regulatory Commission involving the Cannonsville Dam; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. HOLDING (for himself and Mr. Levin):
       H.R. 2293. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 for purposes of the tax on private foundation excess 
     business holdings to treat as outstanding any employee-owned 
     stock purchased by a business enterprise pursuant to certain 
     employee stock ownership retirement plans; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. KING of New York (for himself and Mr. Pascrell):
       H.R. 2294. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     provide that for purposes of computing the annuity of certain 
     law enforcement officers, any hours worked in excess of the 
     limitation applicable to law enforcement premium pay shall be 
     included in such computation, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LEVIN (for himself, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Slaughter, 
             Mr. Nadler, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Pocan, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Takano, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Lee, Mr. Scott 
             of Virginia, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Blumenauer, and 
             Ms. McCollum):
       H.R. 2295. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for the proper tax treatment of personal 
     service income earned in pass-thru entities; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself and Mr. Michael F. Doyle 
             of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 2296. A bill to increase accountability with respect 
     to Department of Energy carbon capture, utilization, and 
     sequestration projects, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MEEHAN (for himself, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Neal, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, and Mr. Kind):
       H.R. 2297. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide an exception from the passive loss rules for 
     investments in high technology research small business pass-
     thru entities; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER:
       H.R. 2298. A bill to amend the Former Presidents Act of 
     1958 to provide that former Presidents may not receive 
     Government funded office space, staff, or free use of the 
     mail, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight 
     and Government Reform, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Appropriations, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. TENNEY (for herself, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, 
             and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 2299. A bill to save taxpayers money by improving the 
     manufacturing and distribution of coins and notes, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California (for herself, Mr. Al 
             Green of Texas, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Lee, Mr. Ellison, 
             Ms. Velazquez, and Ms. Speier):
       H.R. 2300. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to improve the determination of cohort default rates and 
     provide for enhanced civil penalties, to ensure personal 
     liability of owners, officers, and executives of institutions 
     of higher education, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California (for herself, Mr. 
             Takano, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Lee, Ms. 
             Speier, Ms. Velazquez, and Mr. Ellison):
       H.R. 2301. A bill to provide that chapter 1 of title 9 of 
     the United States Code, relating to the enforcement of 
     arbitration agreements, shall not apply to enrollment 
     agreements made between students and certain institutions of 
     higher education; and to prohibit limitations on the ability 
     of students to pursue claims against certain institutions of 
     higher education; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN (for herself, Mr. Payne, Mr. 
             Gottheimer, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Pallone, Mr. MacArthur, 
             Mr. Lance, Mr. Sires, and Mr. Norcross):
       H.R. 2302. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 259 Nassau Street, Suite 2 
     in Princeton, New Jersey, as the ``Dr. John F. Nash, Jr. Post 
     Office''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself, 
             Mr. Bilirakis, and Mr. Payne):
       H. Con. Res. 51. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of the Congress that the Parthenon Marbles should be returned 
     to Greece; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. KEATING (for himself, Ms. Bass, Mr. Bera, Mr. 
             Brat, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Correa, Mr. Costa, 
             Mr. Cramer, Mr. Crowley, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Deutch, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Mr. Donovan, Mr. Engel, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. 
             Gallego, Mr. Grothman, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Higgins of 
             New York, Mr. Sam Johnson of Texas, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
             Kennedy, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Kihuen, Mr. Langevin, Mr. 
             Larson of Connecticut, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Lowenthal, 
             Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. McGovern, 
             Mr. McNerney, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, Mr. Neal, 
             Mr. Newhouse, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Pascrell, Ms. Pingree, 
             Mr. Quigley, Mrs. Radewagen, Miss Rice of New York, 
             Mr. Rush, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Schneider, Mr. 
             Serrano, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Sires, Mr. Sessions, 
             Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Vela, and Mr. Wenstrup):
       H. Con. Res. 52. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of Congress that an appropriate site in the Memorial 
     Amphitheater in Arlington National Cemetery should be 
     provided for a memorial marker to honor the memory of those 
     who have been awarded or are eligible for the Korean Defense 
     Service Medal who are missing in action, are unaccounted for, 
     or died in-theater; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Armed Services, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BYRNE:
       H. Res. 303. A resolution electing a Member to certain 
     standing committees of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to. considered and agreed to.
           By Ms. SHEA-PORTER (for herself, Mr. Engel, and Mr. 
             Harper):
       H. Res. 304. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of May as ``National Asthma and Allergy Awareness 
     Month``; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. RYAN of Ohio (for himself, Mr. Lipinski, and Mr. 
             Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania):
       H. Res. 306. A resolution recognizing the impact of 
     tribology on the United States economy and competitiveness in 
     providing solutions to critical technical problems in 
     manufacturing, energy production and use, transportation 
     vehicles and infrastructure, greenhouse gas emissions, 
     defense and homeland security, health care, mining safety and 
     reliability, and space exploration, among others, and 
     recognizing the need for increased research and development 
     investments in tribology and related fields; to the Committee 
     on Science, Space, and Technology.

                          ____________________



