

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 84 (Tuesday, May 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 84 (Tuesday, May 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2964-S2966]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 109

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from 
Colorado (Mr. Bennet) and the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Burr) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 109, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to provide for coverage under the Medicare program 
of pharmacist services.


                                 S. 184

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 184, a bill to prohibit 
taxpayer funded abortions.


                                 S. 203

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 203, a bill to reaffirm that the 
Environmental Protection Agency may not regulate vehicles used solely 
for competition, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 339

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 339, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to repeal the requirement for reduction of 
survivor annuities under the Survivor Benefit Plan by veterans' 
dependency and indemnity compensation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 366

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 366, a bill to require the 
Federal financial institutions regulatory agencies to take risk 
profiles and business models of institutions into account when taking 
regulatory actions, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 379

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from New 
York (Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 379, a bill to 
amend title II of the Social Security Act to eliminate the five month 
waiting period for disability insurance benefits under such title for 
individuals with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.


                                 S. 428

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the names of the Senator from Missouri

[[Page S2965]]

(Mrs. McCaskill) and the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 428, a bill to amend titles XIX and XXI of the 
Social Security Act to authorize States to provide coordinated care to 
children with complex medical conditions through enhanced pediatric 
health homes, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 448

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 448, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for treatment 
of clinical psychologists as physicians for purposes of furnishing 
clinical psychologist services under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) and the Senator from North Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 479, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under Medicare for colorectal 
cancer screening tests, regardless of whether therapeutic intervention 
is required during the screening.


                                 S. 568

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 568, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to count a period of 
receipt of outpatient observation services in a hospital toward 
satisfying the 3-day inpatient hospital requirement for coverage of 
skilled nursing facility services under Medicare.


                                 S. 583

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 583, a bill to amend the Omnibus 
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to authorize COPS grantees 
to use grant funds to hire veterans as career law enforcement officers, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 665

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 665, a bill to amend the 
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to authorize additional lease sales 
to be added to an approved 5-year leasing program.


                                 S. 712

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 712, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to reform the rights and processes 
relating to appeals of decisions regarding claims for benefits under 
the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) was added as a cosponsor of S. 720, a bill to amend the 
Export Administration Act of 1979 to include in the prohibitions on 
boycotts against allies of the United States boycotts fostered by 
international governmental organizations against Israel and to direct 
the Export-Import Bank of the United States to oppose boycotts against 
Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 766

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 766, a bill to amend 
titles 10 and 32, United States Code, to improve and enhance 
authorities relating to the employment, use, status, and benefits of 
military technicians (dual status), and for other purposes.


                                 S. 772

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 772, a bill to amend the 
PROTECT Act to make Indian tribes eligible for AMBER Alert grants.


                                 S. 833

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 833, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to expand health care and benefits from the 
Department of Veterans Affairs for military sexual trauma, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 836

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 836, a bill to amend the 
Federal Credit Union Act to exclude a loan secured by a non-owner 
occupied 1- to 4-family dwelling from the definition of a member 
business loan, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 860

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) and the Senator from Minnesota (Mr. Franken) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 860, a bill to reauthorize and improve the Juvenile 
Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 867

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the names of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto), the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin) and the 
Senator from Montana (Mr. Tester) were added as cosponsors of S. 867, a 
bill to provide support for law enforcement agency efforts to protect 
the mental health and well-being of law enforcement officers, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 926

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) was added as a cosponsor of S. 926, a bill to 
authorize the Global War on Terror Memorial Foundation to establish the 
National Global War on Terrorism Memorial as a commemorative work in 
the District of Columbia, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 938

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 938, a bill to require 
notice of cost-free Federal procurement technical assistance in 
connection with registration of small business concerns in procurement 
systems.


                                 S. 956

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 956, a bill to amend the 
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to limit the authority of the 
President to withdraw areas from oil and gas leasing, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 989

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the names of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator from Maine (Ms. Collins) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 989, a bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
provide for the participation of pediatric subspecialists in the 
National Health Service Corps program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1057

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1057, a bill to amend the 
Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and Control Act of 1998 to 
address harmful algal blooms, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1094

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) and the Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. Capito) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1094, a bill to amend title 38, United States 
Code, to improve the accountability of employees of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1114

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1114, a bill 
to nullify the effect of the recent Executive order laying a foundation 
for discrimination against LGBTQ individuals, women, religious 
minorities, and others under the pretext of religious freedom.


                               S. RES. 61

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 61, a resolution calling on 
the Department of Defense, other elements of the Federal Government, 
and foreign governments to intensify efforts to investigate, recover, 
and identify all missing and unaccounted-for personnel of the United 
States.


                              S. RES. 102

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) and the Senator from Arizona (Mr. Flake) 
were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 102, a resolution reaffirming the 
strategic partnership between the United States and Mexico, and 
recognizing bilateral cooperation that advances the national security 
and national interests of both countries.

[[Page S2966]]

  



                              S. RES. 136

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 136, a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate regarding the 102nd anniversary of 
the Armenian Genocide.


                              S. RES. 154

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 154, a resolution 
promoting awareness of motorcycle profiling and encouraging 
collaboration and communication with the motorcycle community and law 
enforcement officials to prevent instances of profiling.


                              S. RES. 156

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 156, a 
resolution recognizing National Foster Care Month as an opportunity to 
raise awareness about the challenges of children in the foster-care 
system, and encouraging Congress to implement policy to improve the 
lives of children in the foster-care system.


                              S. RES. 161

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 161, a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate that defense laboratories are on the 
cutting-edge of scientific and technological advancement, and 
supporting the designation of May 18, 2017, as ``Department of Defense 
Laboratory Day''.

                          ____________________



