

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4298]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      TRIBUTE TO LOU D'ALLESANDRO

  Ms. HASSAN. Madam President, today I wish to recognize Senator Lou 
D'Allesandro and congratulate him on his 20 years of service in the New 
Hampshire Senate and to honor his extraordinary career of public 
service to the State of New Hampshire.
  Senator D'Allesandro is serving his 10th term in the New Hampshire 
Senate representing Manchester and previously served three terms on the 
New Hampshire Executive Council and two terms in the New Hampshire 
House of Representatives. Serving with distinction, he has always 
sought to best represent his constituents and is well known in New 
Hampshire for his leadership, his willingness to work constructively to 
better the Granite State, and for the responsiveness and care he has 
shown throughout his years in public service.
  In addition to his many legislative achievements, Senator 
D'Allesandro served our country honorably in uniform in the U.S. Marine 
Corps and is an accomplished educator. Senator D'Allesandro was 
instrumental in getting NCAA status for SNHU and has remained extremely 
involved in New Hampshire education, having served as chairman of the 
New England Board of Higher Education. Appointed the first basketball 
coach in Southern New Hampshire University history in 1963, Senator 
D'Allesandro led the SNHU Penmen to three straight titles and compiled 
a record of 114-40 in 7 years of coaching collegiate athletics. He 
holds honorary doctorates from Franklin Pierce University, Daniel 
Webster College, and the New Hampshire Institute of Art, as well as 
degrees from the University of New Hampshire, Rivier University, New 
England College, and the New Hampshire Institute of Art. He is a member 
of the National Football Foundation and College Hall of Fame, Inc., and 
is a director of the New Hampshire Hockey Hall of Fame.
  As one may gather, Senator D'Allesandro is passionate about bettering 
the lives of New Hampshire's young people through education, and I 
sincerely thank him for his years supporting, in so many ways, our 
colleges and universities. I also thank his wonderful wife, Pat, who 
has stood by Lou's side and, in doing so, has also served the people of 
New Hampshire. I am honored to call Lou D'Allesandro a friend, and as 
Senator for New Hampshire, I join my voice with the voices of so many 
other Granite Staters to express gratitude to Senator D'Allesandro for 
his extraordinary commitment to public service, his selfless 
contributions to higher education, and the positive impact he has made 
on the State of New Hampshire. Of course, I join all Granite Staters in 
wishing Lou a great American day.

                          ____________________



