

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 73 (Friday, April 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 73 (Friday, April 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2970-H2972]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. DeFAZIO (for himself, Mr. Walden, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, and Ms. Bonamici):
       H.R. 2223. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     provide for a rail spill preparedness fund, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. SMITH of Nebraska (for himself, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Long, Mr. Barr, and Mr. Byrne):
       H.R. 2224. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to apply budget neutrality on a State-specific 
     basis in the calculation of the Medicare hospital wage index 
     floor for non-rural areas; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. STIVERS (for himself and Mr. Walz):
       H.R. 2225. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to carry out a pilot program on dog training therapy; 
     to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BARR (for himself, Mr. Amodei, Mr. Emmer, Mr. 
             Hill, Mr. Hultgren, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Lucas, 
             Mr. Luetkemeyer, Mr. Marchant, Mr. Messer, Mr. 
             Pearce, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Poliquin, Mr. Royce of 
             California, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. Stewart, Mr. Stivers, 
             Mr. Tipton, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Walberg, Mr. Williams, 
             Mr. Davidson, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Loudermilk, 
             Mr. McHenry, Mr. Posey, Mr. Kustoff of Tennessee, Mr. 
             Huizenga, Mr. Hollingsworth, Mr. Duffy, Mr. Trott, 
             and Mr. Blum):
       H.R. 2226. A bill to amend the Truth in Lending Act to 
     provide a safe harbor from certain requirements related to 
     qualified mortgages for residential mortgage loans held on an 
     originating depository institution's portfolio, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. HURD (for himself, Mr. Connolly, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Mr. Chaffetz, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Kilmer, Mrs. Comstock, 
             Mr. Yoder, Mr. Taylor, and Ms. Granger):
       H.R. 2227. A bill to modernize Government information 
     technology, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Appropriations, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana (for herself, Mrs. Demings, 
             Mr. Collins of Georgia, Mr. Pascrell, and Mr. 
             Reichert):
       H.R. 2228. A bill to provide support for law enforcement 
     agency efforts to protect the mental health and well-being of 
     law enforcement officers, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CUMMINGS (for himself and Mr. Farenthold):
       H.R. 2229. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     provide permanent authority for judicial review of certain 
     Merit Systems Protection Board decisions relating to 
     whistleblowers, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Lewis 
             of Georgia, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Meehan, Mr. 
             Deutch, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Ms. Granger, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Yarmuth, 
             Mr. Foster, Mr. Engel, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. 
             Faso, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Rush, Mrs. Davis of 
             California, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. McGovern, Ms. 
             Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Hastings, 
             Mrs. Lowey, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. King of New York, Mr. 
             Coffman, Mr. Cook, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. 
             Diaz-Balart, Mr. Swalwell of California, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Kustoff of Tennessee, Mr. Donovan, 
             Mr. Lance, Mr. Hultgren, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mrs. 
             Wagner, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Roskam, Mr. Katko, Mr. 
             Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. 
             Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Raskin, Mr. MacArthur, 
             Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Hill, Mr. 
             Farenthold, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. Reichert, Mr. Royce of 
             California, and Mr. Fitzpatrick):
       H.R. 2230. A bill to direct the Joint Committee on the 
     Library to obtain a statue or bust of Elie Wiesel for 
     placement in the United States Capitol; to the Committee on 
     House Administration.
           By Ms. DelBENE (for herself, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Peters, 
             and Mrs. Murphy of Florida):
       H.R. 2231. A bill to establish a joint commission on North 
     Korea, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on Armed Services, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN (for herself, Mr. Smith of New 
             Jersey, Ms. Granger, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Wilson of South 
             Carolina, Mr. Roskam, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Weber of Texas, 
             Mr. Meadows, Mr. Zeldin, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Bilirakis, 
             and Mr. DeSantis):
       H.R. 2232. A bill to ensure accountability at the United 
     Nations and its specialized agencies and to promote reform 
     and limit anti-Semitism and anti-Israel bias at the United 
     Nations; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

[[Page H2971]]

  

           By Mr. BROOKS of Alabama (for himself, Mr. Jones, and 
             Mr. Francis Rooney of Florida):
       H.R. 2233. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to improve the H-1B visa program, to repeal the diversity 
     visa lottery program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. TITUS (for herself, Mr. Pocan, Ms. DelBene, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Takano, Mr. Huffman, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Ms. Herrera Beutler, Mr. 
             McNerney, Mr. Garamendi, and Mr. McGovern):
       H.R. 2234. A bill to direct the Secretary of Education to 
     establish the Recognizing Inspiring School Employees (RISE) 
     Award Program recognizing excellence exhibited by public 
     school system employees providing services to students in 
     prekindergarten through higher education; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. JUDY CHU of California:
       H.R. 2235. A bill to improve air travel for passengers, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois (for himself, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Langevin, and Mr. Rush):
       H.R. 2236. A bill to amend the Food and Nutrition Act of 
     2008 to provide certain alternative eligibility requirements 
     applicable to foster care youth, and homeless youth, who are 
     enrolled at least half-time in an institution of higher 
     education; to the Committee on Agriculture.
           By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois (for himself and Mr. 
             Kind):
       H.R. 2237. A bill to provide for phased-in payment of 
     Social Security Disability Insurance payments during the 
     waiting period for individuals with a terminal illness; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. DEMINGS:
       H.R. 2238. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to enhance the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit and 
     make the credit fully refundable; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Ms. FUDGE (for herself, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. 
             Kaptur, and Mrs. Beatty):
       H.R. 2239. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for a State Medicaid option to provide 
     coverage of community-based inpatient substance use disorder 
     treatment for nonelderly adults, to remove such services from 
     the Medicaid exclusion from medical assistance of items and 
     services for patients in an institution for mental diseases, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. GOTTHEIMER (for himself and Mr. Mast):
       H.R. 2240. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Defense to 
     carry out a test of the Arrow 3 missile defense system with 
     the Government of Israel, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. HOLDING (for himself and Mr. Meehan):
       H.R. 2241. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to treat qualified alternative commuter programs as an 
     excludable qualified transportation fringe benefit; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. 
             Nadler, Ms. Norton, Ms. Lee, Ms. McCollum, Mr. 
             Quigley, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. McGovern, and Mr. 
             Raskin):
       H.R. 2242. A bill to prohibit drilling in the outer 
     Continental Shelf, to prohibit coal leases on Federal land, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas (for himself, Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee, and Mr. Walz):
       H.R. 2243. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     provide for the eligibility of certain former members of the 
     Armed Forces who are medically retired and who are entitled 
     to hospital insurance benefits under Medicare part A by 
     reason of previous entitlement to social security disability 
     insurance benefits to enroll in the TRICARE program 
     regardless of whether such members decline enrollment under 
     Medicare part B, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services, and in addition to the Committees on Energy 
     and Commerce, and Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LANCE (for himself and Ms. DeGette):
       H.R. 2244. A bill to direct the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to carry out a pilot project under which no 
     more than 3 sponsors agree to evaluate the psychological and 
     social distress experienced by patients participating in a 
     clinical trial, conducted by the respective sponsor, of a 
     drug or biological product that is intended to treat a 
     serious or life-threatening disease or condition, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. LOFGREN (for herself, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
             Mr. Connolly, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Lee, Mr. Meeks, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Swalwell of California, 
             Mr. Takano, Ms. Titus, Mr. McNerney, and Mr. 
             Gutierrez):
       H.R. 2245. A bill to direct the Secretary of Education to 
     conduct a study to determine the relationship between school 
     start times and adolescent health, well-being, and 
     performance; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. LUETKEMEYER:
       H.R. 2246. A bill to repeal the mandatory flood insurance 
     coverage requirement for commercial properties located in 
     flood hazard areas and to provide for greater transfer of 
     risk under the National Flood Insurance Program to private 
     capital and reinsurance markets, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico:
       H.R. 2247. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for equal treatment of individuals in same-sex 
     marriages, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. PALLONE:
       H.R. 2248. A bill to prohibit the Secretary of the Interior 
     from revising the approved oil and gas leasing program for 
     fiscal years 2017 through 2022; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Pittenger, and Mr. Coffman):
       H.R. 2249. A bill to authorize a State or a portion of a 
     State to conduct a demonstration project designed to test 
     methods of program integration and coordination of services 
     with the goals of moving individuals and families towards 
     self-sufficiency, reducing welfare dependence, and increasing 
     work and earnings; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Agriculture, Financial 
     Services, Education and the Workforce, and Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. Smith of Nebraska, Mr. 
             Curbelo of Florida, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Bishop of 
             Michigan, and Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois):
       H.R. 2250. A bill to establish consistent requirements for 
     the electronic content and format of data used in the 
     administration of certain human services programs under the 
     Social Security Act; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD (for herself, Mr. Jones, Mr. Soto, 
             Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. Meng, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Bishop of 
             Georgia, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Castro of Texas, Ms. 
             Judy Chu of California, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Michelle 
             Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mrs. Torres, Mr. Vela, 
             Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Gallego, Ms. Barragan, 
             Mr. Hastings, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, Mr. Huffman, 
             Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Ms. Plaskett, Mr. 
             Moulton, and Mr. Himes):
       H.R. 2251. A bill to amend the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs Health Care Programs Enhancement Act of 2001 and 
     title 38, United States Code, to require the provision of 
     chiropractic care and services to veterans at all Department 
     of Veterans Affairs medical centers and to expand access to 
     such care and services; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. SANFORD (for himself and Mr. LoBiondo):
       H.R. 2252. A bill to amend the Outer Continental Shelf 
     Lands Act to place a ten-year moratorium on oil and gas 
     preleasing, leasing, and related activities on the Outer 
     Continental Shelf in the North Atlantic, Mid-Atlantic, South 
     Atlantic, and Straits of Florida planning areas and in the 
     Eastern Gulf of Mexico; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. SERRANO:
       H.R. 2253. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide a business credit relating to the use of 
     clean-fuel and fuel efficient vehicles by businesses within 
     areas designated as nonattainment areas under the Clean Air 
     Act, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for himself, Mr. 
             DeSaulnier, Ms. Barragan, Ms. Bass, Ms. Sanchez, Ms. 
             Maxine Waters of California, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Bera, 
             Mr. Denham, Mr. Valadao, Mr. McClintock, Mrs. Torres, 
             Mr. Royce of California, Mr. Sherman, Mr. 
             Rohrabacher, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Nunes, Mr. Aguilar, Ms. 
             Brownley of California, Mr. Calvert, Mr. Carbajal, 
             Mr. Cardenas, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Cook, 
             Mr. Correa, Mr. Costa, Mrs. Davis of California, Ms. 
             Eshoo, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Issa, Mr. 
             Khanna, Mr. Knight, Ms. Lee, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Matsui, 
             Mr. McNerney, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Panetta,

[[Page H2972]]

             Mr. Peters, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Schiff, 
             Ms. Speier, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Takano, 
             Mr. Vargas, and Mrs. Mimi Walters of California):
       H.R. 2254. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 2635 Napa Street in Vallejo, 
     California, as the ``Janet Capello Post Office Building''; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. TROTT:
       H.R. 2255. A bill to clarify that nonprofit organizations 
     may accept donated mortgage appraisals, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. UPTON (for himself, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Hultgren, 
             and Ms. Bonamici):
       H.R. 2256. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
     to mint coins in recognition of Christa McAuliffe; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. WENSTRUP:
       H.R. 2257. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     consolidate certain eligibility tiers under the Post-9/11 
     Educational Assistance Program of Department of Veterans 
     Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. LOWENTHAL (for himself, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Correa, 
             Mr. Peters, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. 
             Kilmer, Mr. Takano, Mr. Connolly, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Mr. Khanna, and Mr. McGovern):
       H. Res. 293. A resolution recognizing the 42nd anniversary 
     of the Fall of Saigon on April 30, 1975; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on Armed 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. TITUS (for herself, Ms. Lee, Mr. Takano, and Mr. 
             Huffman):
       H. Res. 294. A resolution recognizing and honoring the 
     essential role of classified school education support 
     employees through the Recognizing Inspirational School 
     Employees Award; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. CARDENAS (for himself, Mr. Tipton, Ms. Adams, 
             Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Bordallo, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Collins of 
             New York, Mr. Costa, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. 
             Hultgren, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. 
             Larsen of Washington, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. 
             Loebsack, Mrs. Lowey, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of 
             New Mexico, Ms. McCollum, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Quigley, 
             Ms. Sanchez, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Ms. Sinema, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Mr. Takano, Ms. Titus, Mrs. 
             Torres, Mr. Veasey, and Ms. Matsui):
       H. Res. 295. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of the week of April 30, 2017, through May 6, 
     2017, as ``National Small Business Week``to honor the vital 
     role of small business and the passion of entrepreneurs in 
     the United States; to the Committee on Small Business.
           By Mr. COOK (for himself and Mr. Lowenthal):
       H. Res. 296. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
     should provide former members of the Armed Forces of the 
     Republic of Vietnam, who served alongside the United States 
     Armed Forces in defense of their nation during the Vietnam 
     War, with appropriate levels of support and services; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. HOLDING (for himself, Mr. Connolly, and Mr. 
             Meehan):
       H. Res. 297. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of April 2017 as ``National Congenital 
     Diaphragmatic Hernia Awareness Month''; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. PEARCE (for himself, Mr. Swalwell of California, 
             and Mr. Crawford):
       H. Res. 298. A resolution recognizing the security 
     challenges of convening government officials in one specific 
     place and directing the House of Representatives to take 
     appropriate steps so that the House of Representatives can 
     meet in a virtual setting; to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     and in addition to the Committees on Rules, and House 
     Administration, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.

                          ____________________



