

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 120 (Monday, July 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 120 (Monday, July 17, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5888]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    HONORING FORMER SENATOR BOB DOLE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Kansas (Mr. Marshall) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to wish former Kansas Senator 
Bob Dole a happy 94th birthday, which he celebrated this weekend.
  Born in Russell, Kansas, 94 years ago, Senator Dole dedicated his 
life to being a public servant. In 1945, after nearly giving his life 
in World War II, then-2nd Lieutenant Bob Dole earned two Purple Hearts 
and the Bronze Star for his combat valor in Italy. He would later, of 
course, win the Presidential Medal of Freedom.
  After serving as the Representative for the First District, the 
district I represent, he became Senator Bob Dole in 1968. I well 
remember sitting in my own classroom of third grade in Ms. Hileman's 
class at Jefferson grade school and reading our weekly reader, reading 
about a very contentious race involving Bob Dole. And, of course, 
Senator Dole went on to win that race and to serve Kansas until his 
1996 Presidential run.
  To date, Senator Dole has the record for the longest serving 
Republican leader in the Senate. Currently, Senator Dole keeps a very 
busy schedule working here in Washington, D.C., and continues public 
service in a variety of ways. On many Saturdays, he can be seen 
greeting veterans at the World War II Memorial, something I have had 
the pleasure of doing with him.
  His international impact is still felt in programs like the McGovern-
Dole International Food for Education program, which helps fight 
childhood hunger and poverty by providing nutrition to more than 22 
million school children in 41 developing countries.
  Mr. Speaker, as this body debates legislation and its impacts, we 
would do well to keep in mind leaders like Senator Dole, who never 
forgot about the human impact of each bill, who has embodied public 
service his entire life, and who never forgot where he was from, 
Russell, Kansas.
  Happy 94th birthday to my friend, our mentor, our fellow Kansan, 
Senator Bob Dole.


                  Welcome Home First Infantry Division

  Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to welcome home our First 
Infantry Division Headquarters, who have been stationed in Iraq for the 
last 9 months, advising and assisting Iraqi security forces.
  Approximately 150 soldiers in the division returned home this 
weekend, with the rest returning to Fort Riley later this month. Major 
General Martin, the commanding general of the First Infantry Division 
at Fort Riley, was among the soldiers who returned home recently. We 
thank him for his service abroad and are looking forward to working 
with him at Fort Riley.
  This marks the first time that almost our entire division is back 
home together on one post. However, one aviation battalion is still 
currently deployed in the Republic of Korea. These soldiers and their 
families, especially their families, sacrifice greatly, and it 
certainly does not go unnoticed.
  They are part of a distinguished division, the Big Red One, and 
return home just in time for celebrations of the division's 100th 
anniversary.
  Welcome home to General Martin and the rest of his troops.


                        Honoring Amelia Earhart

  Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to acknowledge one of Kansas' 
most well-known natives, Amelia Earhart.
  Amelia was raised in Atchison, Kansas, and would be 120 years old 
this month, and this month also is the 80th anniversary of her 
disappearance.
  After taking her first plane ride in 1920, she soared to the top of 
the aviation world attempting to accomplish the audacious flight around 
the world. Amelia's history has helped shape the future Kansas would 
have in aerospace industry today.
  Her numerous accomplishments, such as being the first woman to fly 
solo across the Atlantic and being elected president of The Ninety-
Nines, a women's aviation club, has helped pave the way for Kansans 
today and make her print in history.
  Thanks, in part, to Amelia, 67 percent of the general aviation fleet 
has been manufactured in Kansas since 1919. It is an honor to have her 
from Kansas, and on her birthday, to recognize all she has done for 
Kansas, aviation, women, and our national pride.

                          ____________________



