

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H3077]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                         HONORING LYDIA STRUNK

  (Mr. HOYER asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 
minute.)
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I agree with almost everything the Speaker 
just had to say, and I may repeat some of it. What I do not agree with, 
however, Mr. Speaker, is that we didn't notice. I noticed. My staff has 
noticed. My staff has not only noticed, but appreciated the 
extraordinary work that Lydia has done for this House--yes, for your 
office, yes, for the Republican side of the aisle, but for this House 
and for the American people.
  Lydia and I have a great relationship, but probably more importantly, 
she has a great relationship with Shuwanza Goff, who runs the floor on 
our side of the aisle.
  What a privilege it is to rise and say to Lydia, thank you--not as a 
Democrat, not as a Republican, but as an American who appreciates the 
role that you have played, Lydia, in making a difference. I always say 
that, when the House runs well, it is the staff's work. When it doesn't 
do so well, it is the Members' responsibility and fault. So you have 
been absolutely terrific.
  And Jeff and Graham and Evie, I join with Speaker Ryan in saying that 
your mom is a great American, a wonderful human being. You know that 
personally. You see it every day in your own lives. But for the past 9 
years, Lydia has been a presence on this floor first in the Republican 
Cloakroom as an assistant, later as a staffer with the Rules Committee, 
and then, as the Speaker just pointed out, deputy floor director for 
the Republican side of the aisle.
  They are the majority party, so Lydia's responsibility really is 
institutional--not partisan, but institutional--and she has performed 
that in the best traditions of the best of this House.
  It is a testament to Lydia's skill and professionalism that she has 
earned the respect not only of her own colleagues on the Republican 
side, but also those who work on my staff and the Democratic leader's 
staff on this side of the aisle. That is why, Lydia, I said we have 
noticed, we have appreciated it.
  In many ways, Mr. Speaker, public service is a family affair for 
Lydia Strunk. She grew up around it when her father worked in the 
George H.W. Bush White House handling legislative affairs. Her dad is a 
good friend of mine, so perhaps I am not objective. I am also the 
father of three daughters, so perhaps I am not objective.
  Nick Calio is one of the great people with whom I have served through 
the years. I think he is here in the gallery somewhere with his wife.
  Thank you, Nick, for your service, and thank you for being such a 
wonderful example for your daughter. She has brought that same kind of 
cooperative, collegial, inclusive spirit to her work that you brought 
to yours not only working in the public sector, but also in the private 
sector.
  Let me end. She grew up in a great State: Maryland. Again, perhaps 
making me more subjective than I otherwise would be.
  After she began as a Cloakroom assistant, she met and later married 
Jeff Strunk, who then worked on Speaker John Boehner's floor staff, 
also very effectively and productively. And when Jeff left Capitol Hill 
in 2013, Lydia was promoted to take his place, a somewhat incestuous 
operation, but it worked extraordinarily well, Mr. Speaker.
  I am grateful. We ought to all be grateful. The American people ought 
to be grateful for her efforts, her know-how, and the dedication she 
brings to the task of ensuring that our work, Americans' work, the 
American people's work here on this floor and on behalf of all of us 
can continue smoothly each day.
  Lydia, thank you. We wish you the very best. We know that whatever 
you do, you will be extraordinarily successful in doing, and that you 
will be perceived by your colleagues and by those with whom you work in 
the same very positive and very appreciative way that we view you 
today. Godspeed.

                          ____________________



