

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3045-S3046]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 SENATE RESOLUTION 173--DESIGNATING THE WEEK OF MAY 15 THROUGH MAY 21, 
                   2017, AS ``NATIONAL POLICE WEEK''

  Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. McConnell, Mr. Leahy, 
Mr. Wicker, Ms. Collins, Mr. Portman, Mr. Moran, Mr. Blunt, Mr. 
Johnson, Ms. Murkowski, Mr. Carper, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Cassidy, Mr. 
Hoeven, Mr. Cruz, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Cochran, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Hatch, 
Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Lankford, Mr. Rounds, Mr. Roberts, Mr. Strange, Mr. 
Donnelly, Mr. King, Mr. Franken, Mr. Tillis, Mr. Sullivan, Ms. 
Klobuchar, Mrs. Ernst, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Peters, Mr. Coons, 
Mr. Brown, Mr. Kennedy, Ms. Cortez Masto, Mr. Burr, Mr. Wyden, Mr. 
Daines, Mr. Booker, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Young, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Scott, 
Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Cotton, Mr. Rubio, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Crapo, Mr. 
Casey, Mr. Toomey, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. Enzi, Mr. Markey, Mrs. Murray, 
Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Corker, Mr. Isakson, Mr. Graham, Mr. Perdue, Mr. 
Durbin, Mr. Lee, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Risch, and Mr. Heller) submitted 
the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to:

                              S. Res. 173

       Whereas, in 1962, John Fitzgerald Kennedy signed the Joint 
     Resolution entitled ``Joint Resolution to authorize the 
     President to proclaim May 15 of each year as Peace Officers 
     Memorial Day and the calendar week of each year during which 
     such May 15 occurs as Police Week'' (36 U.S.C. 136);
       Whereas the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial, 
     dedicated on October 15, 1991, is the national monument to 
     honor law enforcement officers who have died in the line of 
     duty;
       Whereas Federal, State, local, and tribal police officers, 
     sheriffs, and other law enforcement officers across the 
     United States serve with valor, dignity and integrity;
       Whereas law enforcement officers are charged with pursuing 
     justice for all individuals and performing their duties with 
     fidelity to the constitutional and civil rights of the 
     individuals that the law enforcement officers serve;
       Whereas the resolve of law enforcement officers in the 
     service of their communities is unyielding, despite inherent 
     dangers in the performance of their duties;
       Whereas the vigilance, compassion, and decency of law 
     enforcement officers are the best defense of society against 
     individuals who seek to do harm;
       Whereas Peace Officers Memorial Day, 2017, honors the 143 
     law enforcement officers killed in the line of duty during 
     2016, including Amir Abdul-Khaliq, Lorne Bradley Aherns, Sean 
     Lewis Allred, Manuel Alejandro Alvarez, Scott Alfred 
     Ballantyne, Robert Aaron Barker, Gregory Eugene Barney, 
     Douglas Scott Barney, II, Jose Daniel Barraza, Scott Leslie 
     Bashioum, Stacey Allen Baumgartner, Brian Pecson Beliso, 
     Anthony David Beminio, Kenneth Levella Bettis, Timothy James 
     Brackeen, Allen David Brandt, James Irwin Brockmeyer, Cody 
     James Brotherson, Shannon Matthew Brown, Patrick Thomas 
     Carothers, Nathaniel Alan Carrigan, Jose Ismael Chavez, Aaron 
     Jackson Christian, Thomas L. Clardy, Paul Allen Clark, 
     Brandon Scott Collins, Jacai David Colson, Adam Scott Conrad, 
     William Pressley Cooper, Clint E. Corvinus, Thomas Wayne 
     Cottrell, Jr., Sean Eamonn Cullen, Patrick Bryan Dailey, 
     Jonathan Matias DeGuzman, Chad Phillip Dermyer, Cody James 
     Donahue, Endy Nddiobong Ekpanya, David Kyle Elahi, Eric Dale 
     Ellsworth, Susan Louise Farrell, William George Fearon, Scot 
     Fitzgerald, Leander Frank,

[[Page S3046]]

     De'Greaun Reshun Frazier, Anthony Joseph Freeman, Jason 
     Gallero, Bradford Allen Garafola, Sr., Derek Mace Geer, 
     Matthew Lane Gerald, David Van Glasser, Dan Thomas Glaze, 
     Jr., David Gomez, Jason Michael Goodding, Ashley Marie 
     Guindon, R. Jake Gutierrez, Adam John Hartwig, David Stefan 
     Hofer, Jack Lanceson Hopkins, Natasha Maria Hunter, John 
     Thomas Isenhour, Montrell Lyle Jackson, Allen Lee Jacobs, 
     Myron Anthony Jarrett, Mari Ann Johnson, Sean Richard 
     Johnson, Michael Jason Katherman, Ronald Eugene Kienzle, Carl 
     Allen Koontz, John Robert Kotfila, Jr., Michael Leslie Krol, 
     Brad D. Lancaster, Zachary Tyler Larnerd, Jude Williams 
     Lewis, Mark Franklin Logsdon, Alfonso Lopez, Rod Barron 
     Lucas, Kenneth Hubert Maltby, Benjamin Edward Marconi, Justin 
     Scott Martin, Lisa Anne Mauldin, Henry Malcolm McAleenan, 
     Jr., Calvin Marcus McCullers, Jr., J. Scott McGuire, Luis A. 
     Melendez-Maldonado, Robert David Melton, David Francis 
     Michel, Jr., Kevin Dwayne Miller, Shawn Glenn Miller, Derrick 
     Morial Mingo, Kenneth Ray Moats, Jason David Moszer, 
     Kristopher David Moules, Jeffrey Don Nichols, Eric James 
     Oliver, David Ortiz, Steven C. Owen, Edwin R. Pabon-Robles, 
     Joseph George Portaro, Timothy P. Pratt, Carlos Bernabe 
     Puente-Morales, Jorge Ramos, Robert Eugene Ransom, Darrin Lee 
     Reed, Waldemar Rivera-Santiago, Victor M. Rosado-Rosa, Collin 
     James Rose, Jorge Sanchez, Justin Ryan Scherlen, Nikeelan D. 
     Semmon, Daryl Wayne Smallwood, Nicholas Ryan Smarr, Jody Carl 
     Smith, Michael Joseph Smith, Steven Michael Smith, Timothy 
     Kevin Smith, Verdell Smith, Sr., Harvey Snook, III, Blake 
     Curtis Snyder, Patrick Michael Sondron, Kenneth Joseph 
     Starrs, Kenneth Melvin Steil, Paul R. Stuewer, Martin Tase 
     Sturgill, II, Ronald Tarentino, Jr., James Lee Tartt, Nathan 
     Daniel Taylor, Ryan Sean Thomas, Brent Alan Thompson, Paul J. 
     Tuozzolo, Jose Gilbert Vega, Kenneth V. Velez, Michael Josua 
     Ventura, Dennis Randall Wallace, Landon Eugene Weaver, Justin 
     Scott White, Frankie Lamar Williams, Michael Scott Williams, 
     Michael Arthur Winter, Kerry Joseph Winters, Sr., Patricio 
     Enrique Zamarripa, Joseph Peter Zangaro, Marco Antonio 
     Zarate, and Lesley Marie Zerebny; and
       Whereas, during the first 4 months of 2017, 42 law 
     enforcement officers across the United States have made the 
     ultimate sacrifice: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) designates the week of May 15 through May 21, 2017, as 
     ``National Police Week'';
       (2) expresses strong support for law enforcement officers 
     across the United States for their efforts to build safer and 
     more secure communities;
       (3) recognizes the need to ensure that law enforcement 
     officers have the equipment, training, and resources 
     necessary to protect their health and safety while the law 
     enforcement officers are protecting the public;
       (4) recognizes the members of the law enforcement community 
     for their selfless acts of bravery;
       (5) acknowledges that police officers and other law 
     enforcement officers who have made the ultimate sacrifice 
     should be remembered and honored;
       (6) expresses condolences to the loved ones of each law 
     enforcement officer who has made the ultimate sacrifice in 
     the line of duty; and
       (7) encourages the people of the United States to observe 
     National Police Week with appropriate ceremonies and 
     activities that promote awareness of the vital role of law 
     enforcement officers in building safer and more secure 
     communities across the United States.

                          ____________________



