

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 64 (Wednesday, April 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 64 (Wednesday, April 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2802]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                            PETITIONS, ETC.

  Under clause 3 of rule XII, petitions and papers were laid on the 
clerk's desk and referred as follows:

       34. The SPEAKER presented a petition of the Mayor and 
     Borough Council of the Borough of South River, Middlesex 
     County, NJ, relative to Resolution 2017-105, supporting H.R. 
     814, known as the ``Thin Blue Line Act'', and urging the 
     United States House of Representatives and U.S. Senate to 
     enact this legislation; which was referred to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
       35. Also, a petition of the City Council of Redmond, WA, 
     relative to Resolution No. 1470, urging the United States 
     Congress to enact legislation enabling state and local 
     governments to collect sales tax revenues that are due and 
     protect local business through the preservation of an 
     equitable sales tax system; which was referred to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
       36. Also, a petition of the Franklin County, VA, Board of 
     Supervisors, relative to a resolution urging the United 
     States Congress to enact legislation that will enable State 
     and Local governments to collect revenues due to local 
     government that are essential to the expansion of our local 
     and regional economy; which was referred to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
       37. Also, a petition of Senate of Puerto Rico, relative to 
     Senate Resolution 156, requesting the United States Congress 
     to direct the members of the Board created by the Puerto Rico 
     Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA) 
     and the contractors thereof [to disclose] any and all 
     information relating to the holding of Bonds of the 
     Government of Puerto Rico and its instrumentalities; holdings 
     or similar securities, in their capacity as natural or 
     juridical person, and for other related purposes.; which was 
     referred jointly to the Committees on Natural Resources, the 
     Judiciary, Education and the Workforce, and Small Business.


