

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4309-H4311]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. 
             Pallone, Mr. Norcross, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Kihuen, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. Sablan, Mr. Espaillat, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. 
             Adams, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Nadler, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mr. Evans, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Ms. Clarke of New 
             York, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Payne, Ms. 
             Kaptur, Mrs. Demings, Mr. Vela, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Rush, 
             Ms. Blunt Rochester, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Engel, Ms. 
             Roybal-Allard, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Cohen, 
             Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Jeffries, 
             Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Mr. Clay, Mr. Takano, Mr. 
             Vargas, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. McEachin, Mrs. Torres, 
             Mr. Nolan, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Loebsack, Ms. Moore, 
             Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Serrano, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New 
             Mexico, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Ms. DeLauro, Ms. 
             Castor of Florida, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. McGovern, and 
             Mr. Cartwright):
       H.R. 2475. A bill to provide for the long-term improvement 
     of public school facilities, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to 
     the Committees on Ways and Means, and the Budget, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. BLACK (for herself, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Franks of Arizona, and Ms. Bass):
       H.R. 2476. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for a refundable adoption tax credit; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. COURTNEY (for himself, Ms. Adams, Mr. Aguilar, 
             Ms. Barragan, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. 
             Brownley of California, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Carbajal, 
             Mr. Cartwright, Ms. Castor of Florida, Ms. Judy Chu 
             of California, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mr. Correa, Mr. Cummings, Mr. DeFazio, Ms. 
             DeGette, Ms. DeLauro, Ms. DelBene, Mr. DeSaulnier, 
             Mrs. Dingell, Ms. Eshoo, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Mr. 
             Evans, Mr. Foster, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. 
             Hanabusa, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Hoyer, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. 
             Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Langevin, Mr. 
             Larson of Connecticut, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Lawson of 
             Florida, Mr. Levin, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Lowenthal, Mrs. 
             Lowey, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Ms. Michelle 
             Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Lynch, Mrs. Carolyn 
             B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, Ms. Matsui, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Moulton, Mr. 
             Norcross, Ms. Norton, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Payne, Mr. 
             Perlmutter, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Raskin, Miss Rice of New 
             York, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Sablan, Ms. Sanchez, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. 
             Serrano, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Sherman, Ms. Slaughter, 
             Mr. Soto, Mr. Swalwell of California, Ms. Titus, Mrs. 
             Torres, Ms. Tsongas, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Visclosky, 
             Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Welch, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. 
             Engel, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Delaney, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Neal, 
             Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Kind, Mr. Conyers, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, Mr. Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Brady of Pennsylvania, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. 
             Keating, Ms. Kaptur, Mrs. Davis of California, Ms. 
             Bass, Mr. Doggett, Ms. Fudge, Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Ms. Moore, Mr. 
             Pascrell, Mr. Thompson of California, Mr. Vargas, Mr. 
             Heck, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Mr. Nolan, 
             Ms. Speier, Mr. Takano, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. 
             Ellison, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Huffman, Mr. 
             Carson of Indiana, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Walz, and Mr. 
             Sarbanes):
       H.R. 2477. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to provide for the refinancing of certain Federal student 
     loans, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Education 
     and the Workforce, and in addition to the Committees on Ways 
     and Means, and the Budget, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Coffman, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Smith of Texas, and Mr. 
             LaMalfa):
       H.R. 2478. A bill to amend the Veterans Access, Choice, and 
     Accountability Act of 2014 to clarify the distance 
     requirement with respect to determining the eligibility of 
     veterans to receive hospital care and medical services from 
     non-Department of Veterans Affairs facilities; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. PALLONE (for himself, Mr. Rush, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. 
             Engel, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. Michael F. Doyle 
             of Pennsylvania, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Butterfield, Ms. 
             Castor of Florida, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. McNerney, Mr. 
             Welch, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. Tonko, 
             Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Cardenas, 
             Mr. Ruiz, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Kennedy, Ms. Matsui, Ms. 
             DeGette, and Mr. Peters):
       H.R. 2479. A bill to rebuild and modernize the Nation's 
     infrastructure to expand access to broadband internet, 
     rehabilitate drinking water infrastructure, modernize the 
     electric grid and energy supply infrastructure, redevelop 
     brownfields, strengthen health care infrastructure, create 
     jobs, protect public health and the environment, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in addition to the Committees on Science, Space, and 
     Technology, Transportation and Infrastructure, Ways and 
     Means, and Natural Resources, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mrs. HARTZLER:
       H.R. 2480. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and 
     Safe Streets Act of 1968 to include an additional permissible 
     use of amounts provided as grants under the Byrne JAG 
     program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for himself and Mr. 
             Farenthold):
       H.R. 2481. A bill to establish the Vulnerability Equities 
     Review Board, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. STEFANIK (for herself, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Duncan of 
             Tennessee, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, and Mr. 
             DeSaulnier):
       H.R. 2482. A bill to extend temporarily the Federal Perkins 
     Loan program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. HUDSON (for himself and Mr. Bucshon):
       H.R. 2483. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to provide for the establishment of a third-
     party quality system assessment program for devices, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. NOEM (for herself, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Royce of 
             California, and Mr. Engel):
       H.R. 2484. A bill to ensure that the United States promotes 
     the meaningful participation of women in mediation and 
     negotiation processes seeking to prevent, mitigate, or 
     resolve violent conflict; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on Armed Services, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York (for himself 
             and Mr. Faso):
       H.R. 2485. A bill to require the Administrator of the 
     Federal Aviation Administration to evaluate and consider 
     revising regulations relating to emergency medical equipment 
     requirements for passenger aircraft; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself, Mr. Conyers, Mr. 
             Sablan, and Ms. Adams):
       H.R. 2486. A bill to amend title VI of the Civil Rights Act 
     of 1964 to restore the right to individual civil actions in 
     cases involving disparate impact, and for other purposes; to

[[Page H4310]]

     the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina (for himself and Mrs. 
             Davis of California):
       H.R. 2487. A bill to amend title 37, United States Code, to 
     provide for the housing treatment of members of the Armed 
     Forces and their spouses and dependents undergoing a 
     permanent change of station in the United States, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ (for herself, Miss Gonzalez-Colon of 
             Puerto Rico, Mr. Serrano, Mr. MacArthur, Mr. Soto, 
             Mr. Duffy, and Mrs. Murphy of Florida):
       H.R. 2488. A bill to provide for small business concerns 
     located in Puerto Rico, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Small Business.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ:
       H.R. 2489. A bill to amend the Small Business Investment 
     Act of 1958 and the Small Business Act to include small 
     business investment companies in the Small Business 
     Innovation Research Program and the Small Business Technology 
     Transfer Program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Small Business.
           By Mr. BERA:
       H.R. 2490. A bill to amend title IV of the Higher Education 
     Act of 1965 in order to increase the amount of financial 
     support available for working students; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. 
             Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Connolly, 
             Mr. Delaney, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Ellison, 
             Mr. Engel, Mr. Espaillat, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, 
             Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Gutierrez, 
             Mr. Hastings, Ms. Norton, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Jackson 
             Lee, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Miss Rice of New York, 
             Mr. Keating, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Kildee, Mr. 
             Kilmer, Mr. Langevin, Ms. Lee, Mr. Lowenthal, Mrs. 
             Lowey, Mr. Lynch, Ms. McCollum, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
             Moulton, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Sean Patrick 
             Maloney of New York, Mr. Peters, Ms. Pingree, Mr. 
             Pocan, Ms. Rosen, Mr. Rush, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. 
             Sanchez, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. 
             Sherman, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Sires, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, Ms. Speier, Mr. Takano, Ms. Titus, Mrs. 
             Torres, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Walz, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, 
             Mr. Welch, and Mr. Yarmuth):
       H.R. 2491. A bill to impose sanctions with respect to 
     foreign persons responsible for gross violations of 
     internationally recognized human rights against lesbian, gay, 
     bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) individuals, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois:
       H.R. 2492. A bill to amend chapter 81 of title 5, United 
     States Code, to require the forfeiture of worker's 
     compensation benefits under such chapter by any individual 
     who, while serving as a Member of Congress, converted 
     campaign funds to personal use in violation of the Federal 
     Election Campaign Act of 1971 or engaged in other offenses 
     relating to the abuse of the public trust, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, 
     and in addition to the Committee on House Administration, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DEUTCH (for himself, Ms. Lofgren, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Sarbanes, and Mr. 
             Cicilline):
       H.R. 2493. A bill to amend the Ethics in Government Act of 
     1978 to require individuals nominated or appointed to Senate-
     confirmed positions or to positions of a confidential or 
     policymaking character to disclose certain types of 
     contributions made or solicited by, or on behalf of, the 
     individuals; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. ESPAILLAT (for himself, Mr. Cohen, and Mr. 
             McGovern):
       H.R. 2494. A bill to amend the Ethics in Government Act of 
     1978 to require the President to place any financial 
     conflicts of interest into a blind trust, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Ms. FRANKEL of Florida (for herself, Ms. Ros-
             Lehtinen, and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 2495. A bill to protect consumers from deceptive 
     practices with respect to online booking of hotel 
     reservations, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. FRANKS of Arizona:
       H.R. 2496. A bill to prohibit assessed or voluntary 
     contributions to the United Nations, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. FRANKS of Arizona:
       H.R. 2497. A bill to prohibit assistance for the 
     Palestinian Authority and the West Bank and Gaza, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. GOTTHEIMER (for himself, Mr. Jeffries, Ms. Judy 
             Chu of California, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Tsongas, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Peters, Mr. Sean Patrick 
             Maloney of New York, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Clarke of New 
             York, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. Delaney, Mr. 
             Polis, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Sherman, Mr. Connolly, Ms. 
             Speier, Ms. Norton, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Capuano, Ms. 
             DelBene, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Ms. Lee, Mr. Langevin, Ms. Pingree, Mr. 
             Himes, Ms. Adams, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Nadler, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mr. Crowley, Mrs. Lowey, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Quigley, Mr. 
             Takano, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Kildee, Ms. Meng, Ms. 
             Brownley of California, Mr. Schneider, Mr. Crist, and 
             Mr. Coffman):
       H.R. 2498. A bill to amend the Equal Credit Opportunity Act 
     to prohibit discrimination on account of sexual orientation 
     or gender identity when extending credit; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, 
             Mr. Raskin, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Ms. Lee, Mr. Richmond, Ms. Schakowsky, 
             Mr. Higgins of New York, Mr. Nadler, Ms. Castor of 
             Florida, Mr. Polis, Mrs. Beatty, Ms. Clarke of New 
             York, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. Conyers, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Mr. McNerney, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Mr. Payne, Ms. Norton, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. 
             Veasey, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Ellison, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Foster, Ms. Moore, 
             Mr. Gallego, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Mr. Brown of 
             Maryland, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, and Ms. Velazquez):
       H.R. 2499. A bill to amend the Help America Vote Act of 
     2002 to require States to meet standards for the location and 
     operation of polling places used in elections for Federal 
     office, including a standard requiring States to ensure that 
     no individual waits for longer than one hour to cast a vote 
     at a polling place, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on House Administration.
           By Mr. HUFFMAN:
       H.R. 2500. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     prohibit high-level Federal employees from participating in 
     any matter substantially related to the appointee's former 
     employment, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. JENKINS of West Virginia (for himself, Mr. 
             Turner, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, and Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts):
       H.R. 2501. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide States with the option of providing medical 
     assistance at a residential pediatric recovery center to 
     infants under 1 year of age with neonatal abstinence syndrome 
     and their families; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. MENG:
       H.R. 2502. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to exclude certain compensation received by public 
     safety officers and their dependents from gross income; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. PAULSEN (for himself, Mr. Kind, and Mrs. Mimi 
             Walters of California):
       H.R. 2503. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to promote health care technology innovation and 
     access to medical devices and services for which patients 
     choose to self-pay under the Medicare program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. PINGREE (for herself and Mr. Poliquin):
       H.R. 2504. A bill to ensure fair treatment in licensing 
     requirements for the export of certain echinoderms; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. REED (for himself and Ms. Sanchez):
       H.R. 2505. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide a nonrefundable credit for working family 
     caregivers; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. RYAN of Ohio (for himself and Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 2506. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to establish a pilot program to award grants to 
     nonprofit veterans service organizations to upgrade the 
     community facilities of such organizations; to the Committee 
     on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. SARBANES (for himself and Mr. McNerney):
       H.R. 2507. A bill to provide for a technology demonstration 
     program related to the modernization of the electric grid; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Science, Space,

[[Page H4311]]

     and Technology, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. SERRANO (for himself, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Soto, 
             Ms. McCollum, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Judy Chu of 
             California, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Gutierrez, 
             Mr. Evans, Ms. Norton, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Nadler, Ms. 
             Velazquez, and Mr. Smith of Washington):
       H.R. 2508. A bill to provide discretionary authority to an 
     immigration judge to determine that an alien parent of a 
     United States citizen child should not be ordered removed, 
     deported, or excluded from the United States; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. TONKO (for himself, Mr. Khanna, Ms. Matsui, Mr. 
             Kennedy, Ms. DeGette, and Mr. Conyers):
       H.R. 2509. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to eliminate the 190-day lifetime limit on 
     inpatient psychiatric hospital services under the Medicare 
     Program; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BUDD:
       H. Res. 329. A resolution recognizing the significance of 
     the hundredth anniversary of the soda Cheerwine; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DAVIDSON:
       H. Res. 330. A resolution authorizing and directing certain 
     authorizing committees to review laws within their 
     jurisdiction and submit to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform changes in such laws necessary to eliminate 
     excessive Executive Branch discretion in the application of 
     those laws; to the Committee on Rules.
           By Mr. FRANKS of Arizona:
       H. Res. 331. A resolution expressing the policy of the 
     United States with respect to a two-state solution between 
     the State of Israel and the Palestinian people; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Kildee, Ms. 
             Roybal-Allard, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Pallone, Ms. McCollum, 
             Mr. Hastings, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. DelBene, Ms. 
             Wasserman Schultz, Ms. Speier, Ms. Norton, Mr. Smith 
             of Washington, Mr. Gallego, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. 
             McEachin, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Deutch, Mr. 
             Gutierrez, Mr. Kilmer, Ms. Schakowsky, Mrs. Lowey, 
             Ms. Pingree, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Keating, 
             Mr. Khanna, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mr. Quigley, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Ms. Hanabusa, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Mr. Himes, Mr. 
             Yarmuth, Mr. Levin, Mr. Meeks, Mr. McGovern, Mr. 
             Sires, Mr. Engel, Mrs. Demings, Mr. Polis, Mr. 
             Panetta, Mr. Raskin, and Ms. Jayapal):
       H. Res. 332. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of the International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Energy and Commerce, and Education and the 
     Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico (for 
             herself and Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico):
       H. Res. 333. A resolution expressing support for States to 
     adopt ``Racheal's Law''; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. McNERNEY (for himself and Mr. Latta):
       H. Res. 334. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives regarding grid modernization; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WALZ (for himself, Mr. Mast, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, Mr. Jones, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Evans, Ms. Kuster of 
             New Hampshire, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Ms. Esty of 
             Connecticut, Mr. Peters, Ms. Brownley of California, 
             and Mr. Panetta):
       H. Res. 335. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of National Purple Heart Recognition Day; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.

                          ____________________



