

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 120 (Monday, July 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 120 (Monday, July 17, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5919-H5920]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:


[[Page H5920]]


  

           By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire (for herself and Mr. 
             Bergman):
       H.R. 3262. A bill to require the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to carry out a pilot program to provide educational 
     assistance to certain former members of the Armed Forces for 
     education and training as physician assistants of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs, to establish pay grades and 
     require competitive pay for physician assistants of the 
     Department, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BURGESS (for himself, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Roskam, 
             and Mr. Thompson of California):
       H.R. 3263. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to extend the Medicare independence at home 
     medical practice demonstration program; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mrs. BLACK (for herself, Mr. Kind, Mr. Valadao, and 
             Mr. Costa):
       H.R. 3264. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to extend and modify certain tax incentives for 
     biodiesel, renewable diesel, and alternative fuels; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. RUTHERFORD (for himself and Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire):
       H.R. 3265. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to permit certain E-2 nonimmigrant investors to adjust 
     status to lawful permanent resident status; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BROWN of Maryland (for himself, Mr. Cummings, 
             Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Evans, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Ms. 
             Hanabusa, Mr. Jeffries, Ms. Lee, Mr. Lynch, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. Peterson, 
             Mr. Raskin, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Veasey, 
             Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. 
             Pocan, and Mr. Garamendi):
       H.R. 3269. A bill to repeal the revised annuity employee 
     and further revised annuity employee categories within the 
     Federal Employees Retirement System, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. COOK (for himself and Mr. O'Halleran):
       H.R. 3270. A bill to establish a procedure for resolving 
     claims to certain rights-of-way, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. DeGETTE (for herself, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, 
             and Mr. Reed):
       H.R. 3271. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act in order to strengthen rules in case of 
     competition for diabetic testing strips, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. FRANKEL of Florida (for herself, Mr. Takano, Mr. 
             Bilirakis, and Mr. Rutherford):
       H.R. 3272. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to carry out a grant program to provide Veteran 
     Student Centers at institutions of higher education to assist 
     veterans in the pursuit of higher education, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Heck, Ms. 
             Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Meeks, Mr. 
             Moulton, Ms. Brownley of California, Ms. Michelle 
             Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Ms. Sinema, Ms. DeGette, 
             Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. 
             Aguilar, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Ms. Speier, Ms. Norton, Mr. Pallone, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Gutierrez, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Peters, Mr. Welch, Mr. Takano, Mr. 
             Yarmuth, Mr. McGovern, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New 
             York, Mr. Levin, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Crowley, Ms. Lee, 
             Mr. Gallego, Mr. Keating, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Deutch, 
             Mr. Quigley, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. 
             Conyers, Mr. Kildee, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Cohen, Ms. 
             Frankel of Florida, Ms. DeLauro, Miss Rice of New 
             York, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Cardenas, Ms. Schakowsky, 
             Mr. Evans, Ms. Titus, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Engel, Ms. 
             Pingree, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Meng, Mrs. Napolitano, 
             Mr. Nadler, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Larsen of 
             Washington, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Beyer, Ms. 
             Judy Chu of California, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. 
             Smith of Washington, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. 
             Higgins of New York, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Crist, Mr. 
             Ruiz, Ms. Adams, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. DeFazio, and Ms. Esty of 
             Connecticut):
       H.R. 3273. A bill to improve Federal population surveys by 
     requiring the collection of voluntary, self-disclosed 
     information on sexual orientation and gender identity in 
     certain surveys, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. McCARTHY (for himself and Mr. Kennedy):
       H.R. 3274. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
     to mint coins in commemoration of President John F. Kennedy; 
     to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. McNERNEY:
       H.R. 3275. A bill to provide drought relief through 
     innovation, increased water supply, and regional adaptation 
     and self-sufficiency, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Natural Resources, Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, Agriculture, Science, Space, and Technology, 
     Ways and Means, and Foreign Affairs, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DeSAULNIER (for himself and Ms. Lee):
       H. Res. 452. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives regarding the necessity to publically 
     exonerate the African-American sailors of the United States 
     Navy who were tried and convicted of mutiny in connection 
     with their service at the Port Chicago Naval Magazine in 
     Concord, California, during World War II in order to further 
     aid in healing the racial divide that continues to exist in 
     the United States; to the Committee on Armed Services.

                          ____________________



