

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4674-H4676]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             NATIONAL GEORGE C. MARSHALL MUSEUM AND LIBRARY

  Mr. BRAT. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and agree to the 
concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 33) designating the George C. 
Marshall Museum and George C. Marshall Research Library in Lexington, 
Virginia, as the National George C. Marshall Museum and Library.
  The Clerk read the title of the concurrent resolution.
  The text of the concurrent resolution is as follows:

                            H. Con. Res. 33

       Whereas General George C. Marshall served as Army Chief of 
     Staff during World War II, Special Ambassador to China, 
     Secretary of State, and Secretary of Defense;
       Whereas General George C. Marshall was promoted to General 
     of the Army in 1944, one of only five Army five-star generals 
     in the history of the United States;
       Whereas General George C. Marshall was awarded the 
     Congressional Gold Medal in 1946 for his military strategy 
     and vital role during World War II;
       Whereas General George C. Marshall was awarded the Nobel 
     Peace Prize in 1953 for developing the European economic 
     recovery strategy known as the Marshall Plan;

[[Page H4675]]

       Whereas the George C. Marshall Foundation was established 
     in 1953 and is devoted to preserving the legacy of General 
     George C. Marshall through educational scholarship programs 
     and facilities;
       Whereas the George C. Marshall Foundation opened the George 
     C. Marshall Museum and George C. Marshall Research Library in 
     1964 in Lexington, Virginia, on the post of the Virginia 
     Military Institute, which is the alma mater of General George 
     C. Marshall;
       Whereas the George C. Marshall Museum educates the public 
     about the military and diplomatic contributions of General 
     George C. Marshall through extensive exhibits; and
       Whereas the George C. Marshall Research Library maintains 
     the most comprehensive collection of records documenting the 
     life and leadership of General George C. Marshall: Now, 
     therefore, be it
       Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate 
     concurring), That Congress designates the George C. Marshall 
     Museum and George C. Marshall Research Library in Lexington, 
     Virginia, as the National George C. Marshall Museum and 
     Library.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Virginia (Mr. Brat) and the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Scott) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Virginia.


                             General Leave

  Mr. BRAT. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and 
include extraneous material on H. Con. Res. 33.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Virginia?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. BRAT. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Con. Res. 33, a resolution 
that designates the George C. Marshall Museum and George C. Marshall 
Research Library in Lexington, Virginia, as the National George C. 
Marshall Museum and Library.
  George C. Marshall was one of America's most distinguished soldiers, 
a dedicated statesman, and a genuine peacemaker. General Marshall 
served as Army Chief of Staff during World War II, Special Ambassador 
to China, and Secretaries of both the Departments of State and Defense. 
He was promoted to General of the Army in 1944--one of only nine 
individuals in our Nation's history to rise to the rank of a five-star 
officer--and was also awarded the Congressional Gold Medal in 1946.
  In addition, General Marshall was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 
1953 for developing the European economic recovery strategy known as 
the Marshall Plan, which was essential to bringing peace to the postwar 
European continent.
  To honor the legacy of such an accomplished man, the George C. 
Marshall Foundation was created in 1953, to pay tribute to General 
Marshall's contributions to our Nation and the world during some of the 
most perilous and tumultuous times of the 20th century. The Marshall 
Foundation preserves this legacy through educational facilities and 
scholarship programs.
  The George C. Marshall Foundation opened the George C. Marshall 
Museum and George C. Marshall Research Library in 1964, in Lexington, 
Virginia, on the post of the Virginia Military Institute, the alma 
mater of General Marshall. The library provides scholars with a 
documented record of the life of General Marshall and his public 
service, and the museum shares his inspiring story with visitors 
through exhibitions, artifacts, and educational programs.
  General Marshall's contributions to our Nation and our world cannot 
be overstated, and I hope to see this resolution adopted to designate 
the George C. Marshall Museum and George C. Marshall Research Library 
as the National George C. Marshall Museum and Library.
  Both institutions work tirelessly to highlight and share General 
Marshall's work and service, and this is a fitting tribute to a man who 
spent a lifetime faithfully and courageously serving his country at 
home and abroad.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this resolution, and I 
reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Con. Res. 33, designating 
the George C. Marshall Museum and George C. Marshall Research Library 
in Lexington, Virginia, as the National George C. Marshall Museum and 
Library. I appreciate my good friend, the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. 
Goodlatte), for sponsoring the resolution and note that the entire 
Virginia delegation has signed on as original cosponsors.
  General George C. Marshall is a national hero, a distinguished public 
servant, and treasured piece of Virginia's history. Located in 
Lexington, Virginia, the George C. Marshall Museum and Library are 
located on the campus of the Virginia Military Institute, his alma 
mater.
  General Marshall served our country as the Chief of Staff during 
World War II, Special Ambassador to China, Secretary of State, 
president of the Red Cross, Secretary of Defense, and is one of only 
five Army five-star generals in the United States.
  After World War II, General Marshall was awarded the Nobel Peace 
Prize in 1953, for his role in developing the European Recovery Program 
better known as the Marshall Plan. This week we are commemorating the 
70th anniversary of the Marshall Plan speech given on June 5, 1947, at 
Harvard University. The Marshall Plan contributed to European 
integration and growth in the aftermath of World War II.
  As the holder of the George C. Marshall papers and with a mission to 
collect, preserve, and share information regarding the life and career 
of General Marshall, it is apt to make this institution the National 
George C. Marshall Museum and Library.
  Mr. Speaker, considering the important place in our Nation's history 
that General Marshall holds, I urge my colleagues to support the 
resolution, and I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. BRAT. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from 
Virginia (Mr. Goodlatte).
  Mr. GOODLATTE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge passage of H. Con. 
Res. 33. This resolution would designate the George C. Marshall Museum 
and the George C. Marshall Research Library in Lexington, Virginia, as 
the National George C. Marshall Museum and Library.
  I would like to thank Chairwoman Foxx, Ranking Member Scott, and Mr. 
Brat for their work in bringing this legislation to the floor today.
  It is only fitting that we consider this resolution on the week of 
the 70th anniversary of George C. Marshall's speech at Harvard 
University where he proposed a comprehensive foreign assistance 
program--later coined as the Marshall Plan--to help rebuild the war-
torn and devastated economies in Western Europe after World War II.
  General George Catlett Marshall dedicated his life to public 
service--serving honorably in the United States Army, as Army Chief of 
Staff during World War II, Special Ambassador to China, Secretary of 
State, and Secretary of Defense. He was one of only five five-star 
generals ever to serve in our military.
  From his allied plan to storm the beaches of Normandy to the Marshall 
Plan, his leadership changed the world. The history of the United 
States and the global community would be a different place if not for 
the contributions of General Marshall.
  At the recommendation of former President Harry Truman, the Marshall 
Foundation was established in 1953. On May 23, 1964, the Marshall 
Museum and Library was dedicated on the post of the Virginia Military 
Institute--General Marshall's alma mater.

                              {time}  1500

  For over 50 years, the Marshall Foundation has devoted its mission to 
educating the public about the important contributions of General 
Marshall.
  The museum has five extensive exhibits and houses General Marshall's 
1953 Nobel Peace Prize. The research library collects, preserves, and 
shares the largest collection of documents pertaining to General 
Marshall's life.
  Just last year, the Marshall Foundation reached a huge milestone with 
the completion of the Papers of George Catlett Marshall. This project 
began in 1977 with a goal to create a published record of every 
document that General Marshall produced. The final project consists of 
7 volumes and includes 4,260 documents spanning over 5,666 pages.

[[Page H4676]]

  In addition to its extensive research work, the Marshall Foundation 
provides educational opportunities for college students and future 
military leaders.
  The Marshall Undergraduate Scholars program sends college history 
students to the Marshall Foundation to conduct primary research in the 
library's archives. The Marshall Army ROTC Award Seminar also provides 
the top ROTC cadet at each college in the United States the opportunity 
to participate in a national security conference with fellow award 
recipients and current Army leaders. The Marshall-Arnold Air Force ROTC 
Award Seminar provides a similar opportunity to top senior cadets at 
each college with an Air Force ROTC program.
  Two years ago, the Marshall Foundation began the Marshall Legacy 
Series--this multiyear series of exhibits, lectures, and events to 
showcase General Marshall's contributions during the 20th century, and 
connects those contributions to today's world.
  This is just a snapshot of the important work the Marshall Foundation 
conducts to honor and preserve the legacy of General Marshall. I am 
honored to have such a distinguished institution in my district, the 
Sixth Congressional District of Virginia.
  General Marshall once said: ``Sincerity, integrity, and tolerance 
are, to my mind, the first requirements of many to a fine, strong 
character.''
  I applaud the Marshall Foundation's work in sharing Marshall's vision 
and character with a new generation of Americans. I urge passage of 
this resolution to honor one of America's most sincere and 
distinguished public servants by congressionally designating the museum 
and library in Lexington, Virginia, as the National George C. Marshall 
Museum and Library.
  Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I thank my Virginia colleagues 
for their leadership, and I urge my colleagues to support the 
resolution.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. BRAT. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
  Mr. Speaker, I am pleased we are advancing a bipartisan proposal 
today, one that means a great deal to the people in my home State of 
Virginia, to designate the George C. Marshall Museum and Library as the 
National George C. Marshall Museum and Library. We do this to honor a 
great American hero and his enduring legacy.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this resolution, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Brat) that the House suspend the rules and 
agree to the concurrent resolution, H. Con. Res. 33.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the concurrent resolution was agreed to.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



