

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 84 (Tuesday, May 16, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 84 (Tuesday, May 16, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2962-S2963]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

               TRIBUTE TO UTAH'S SERVICE ACADEMY NOMINEES

 Mr. LEE. Mr. President, one of the great privileges of 
representing my fellow Utahns in the U.S. Senate is the annual 
opportunity to meet the exceptional young men and women from the great 
State of Utah who have answered the call of service by applying to the 
U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Naval 
Academy, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy.
  Under title 10 of the U.S. Code, each year, Members of Congress are 
authorized to nominate a number of young men and women from their 
district or State to attend the country's service academies. It is my 
distinct honor to recognize 10 of these exemplary Utahns this year.
  Each of these 10 students is of sound mind and body. This will serve 
them well in Colorado Springs, West Point, Annapolis, and Kings Point--
but to succeed they will need more than this.
  The journey on which these young men and women will soon embark 
requires more than mental and physical aptitude. It also demands strong 
moral character--leadership, courage, honesty, prudence, and self-
discipline. It calls for a commitment to service and love of country.
  Today I would like to recognize and congratulate each of these 
impressive students, all of whom embody, in their own unique way, the 
standards of excellence on which America's service academies are built.
  Jacob Lee Angeletti will be attending the U.S. Air Force Academy. 
Jacob will be graduating from Bingham High School, where he was the 
captain of the soccer team. He also captained his championship club 
soccer team, was named to the Utah Olympic Development Soccer Team, and 
encouraged young athletes as a coach in the local soccer league. A 
leader among his peers, Jacob participated in the Boy Scouts and also 
served as a president in his church's youth organization.
  Emilyanne Rose Baker, from Wasatch High School, accepted an 
appointment to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point after visiting 
multiple service academies. Active in both her school and community, 
Emilyanne served as president of the Japanese Club, a group leader for 
Youthlinc, and a mentor for Big Brothers Big Sisters. She is a member 
of the National Honor Society and was the scholar-athlete on the swim 
team.
  Cody William Brophy will be attending the U.S. Air Force Academy 
after graduating from Corner Canyon High School. Throughout high 
school, Cody prepared himself to attend an academy by preparing 
academically, physically, and by seeking leadership opportunities.
  He ran cross county and track, played competitive soccer, was a 
member of the National Honor Society, and participated in the Civil Air 
Patrol. Cody also attended Boys State and served as president of the 
peer leadership team council.
  Andrew Jesse Dansie has accepted an appointment to the U.S. Military 
Academy at West Point. An Eagle Scout and active member of JROTC, 
Andrew will soon graduate from Snow Canyon High School. Using his 
skills as captain of the swim team, he served others as coach of a 
special needs swim team. Andrew was selected as one of five students to 
represent his school with the district leadership academy, where he 
sharpened his leadership skills through service opportunities.
  Hunter Mansfield Holt, from Desert Hills High School, will be 
attending the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. In addition to being 
an Eagle Scout and member of the National Honor Society, Hunter also 
attended Boys State.

[[Page S2963]]

He served as captain of the football team and also lettered in 
wrestling. He has been an active member of the student council and is 
currently serving as the senior class vice president, all while earning 
high honor roll recognition.
  Russell Isaac Landes will be returning to the U.S. Military Academy 
at West Point after spending the past 2 years serving in the Taiwan 
Taipei Mission for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. As 
an Eagle Scout and a recognized leader among his peers, Russell honed 
his skills as the student body president of the American Leadership 
Academy, where he was also captain of the wrestling team.
  Kylee Paige Madsen will be attending the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy 
in Kings Point, NY. Kylee will soon graduate from the Northern Utah 
Academy for Math, Engineering and Science, NUAMES, where she was 
president of the student outreach and service club. As a member of the 
National Honor Society and with an eye for community service, Kylee 
served local veterans and worked to turn an abandoned home into a youth 
homeless shelter. Kylee was also honored to be elected governor of 
Girls State.
  John Hawkins Romney will be returning to the U.S. Air Force Academy 
after 2 years of speaking Korean as a missionary for the Church of 
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the Korea Busan Mission. As a 
graduate of Lone Peak High School, John was a member of the National 
Honor Society. He is an Eagle Scout and worked on the Veteran's 
Memorial in Alpine City cemetery. John's brother will graduate from the 
Air Force Academy in 2017.
  William Patrick Ryan, III, from Judge Memorial Catholic High School, 
will be attending the U.S. Naval Academy. At Judge Memorial, William 
distinguished himself in student government as student body president 
and previously as the freshman, sophomore, and junior class president. 
He lettered in football, track, and men's dance. William was elected a 
member of the peer ministry, a member of National Honor Society, and 
served as a volunteer for disabled youth and adults at Camp Kostopulos.
  Grace Elizabeth Santella, a graduate of Davis High School and current 
Weber State University student, has accepted an appointment to the U.S. 
Naval Academy. Grace worked hard to earn this appointment and prepare 
for the academy. She was a member of the National Honor Society and 
took many AP and college classes. Grace also served as captain of both 
the swim team, where she was named ``Swimmer of the Year,'' and a 
championship competitive soccer team.
  It has been an honor and inspiration to speak to and nominate each of 
these exemplary young men and women. Doing so has given me an 
unshakeable confidence in the future of this great Nation and future of 
our Armed Services.
  To these 10 students and to all their future classmates from around 
the country, do not forget: this is but the beginning of your journey.
  You would not have arrived at this point were it not for your hard 
work and sacrifice, but now what matters most is not your 
accomplishments of the past, it is what you have yet to achieve in the 
future.
  Thank you.

                          ____________________



