

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 82 (Thursday, May 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 82 (Thursday, May 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2913]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         70TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE LISTER-KNOWLTON VFW POST 9389

  Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the 
United States traces its roots to 1899, when veterans returning home 
after the Spanish-American War joined together to support each other 
and to advance the ideals of our Nation. Nearly a half century later, 
on May 11, 1947, veterans returning to my hometown after World War II 
joined together for the same noble causes. Today I wish to commemorate 
the 70th anniversary of Lister-Knowlton VFW Post 9389 in Caribou, ME.
  The name of Post 9389 signifies a fundamental purpose of the VFW: to 
honor those who gave their lives for freedom. Private Evan Lister and 
CPL Edward Knowlton were both born in Caribou, both served in the U.S. 
Army during World War II, and both made the ultimate sacrifice when 
they were each just 23 years old. Neither will ever be forgotten. Nor 
will we ever forget those who returned home but who have since passed 
into history. It is sobering to note that today there is just one 
living charter member of the Caribou post, WWII veteran David O. 
Michaud, and we honor him for his service.
  In 2003, the Northern Maine Veterans Cemetery was dedicated in 
Caribou. This final resting place for our heroes was the result of many 
years of hard work and determined advocacy by committed citizens, with 
our VFW post leading the way. My father, Donald Collins, a decorated 
World War II veteran, was among those who made that enduring tribute 
possible.
  A defining quality of America's veterans is that they continue to 
serve long after their service in uniform ends. Members of the Caribou 
VFW and the auxiliary are part of a vast network that assists the 
patriots serving today, fellow veterans, and their families. They 
generously support a wide range of community projects, charitable 
endeavors, and youth programs. One of the most important contributions 
made by the VFW is its focus on educating our young people on American 
values. Each year, more than 175,000 high school and middle school 
students nationwide join in the VFW's Voice of Democracy and Patriot's 
Pen essay competitions. That wonderful level of participation is always 
matched by the quality of the submissions. Last year, at the State VFW 
convention, I was delighted to congratulate the two Maine winners, 
including Corrine Corbin of Caribou, sponsored by our hometown VFW.
  I am proud to be a life member of the Caribou VFW Post auxiliary, 
which was also chartered in 1947. Working side by side, the VFW and 
auxiliary honor America and the men and women who defend us. It is a 
pleasure to congratulate the Lister-Knowlton VFW Post 9389 on this 
landmark anniversary.
  Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I wish to honor the Caribou VFW on 
their 70th anniversary. The Caribou VFW, known as the Lister-Knowlton 
VFW Post 9389, was founded on May 11, 1947, by veterans returning home 
from World War II. The post was named after two brave Caribou natives, 
Private Evan Lister and CPL Edward Knowlton, who served their country 
during World War II and made the ultimate sacrifice when they were only 
23 years old. Their dedication and service to our country will never be 
forgotten.
  I also want to recognize the ladies auxiliary, who will celebrate 
their 70th anniversary on June 19. The ladies auxiliary was formed by 
women who were mothers, wives, sisters, and daughters of veterans who 
served in our Armed Forces and whose service made them eligible for the 
Veterans of Foreign Wars. In addition, the auxiliary includes female 
veterans who served abroad in times of war.
  While I want to take this opportunity to acknowledge all of the 
veterans for their service, I want to make special note of David O. 
Michaud. David is a World War II veteran and the sole surviving charter 
member of the Lister-Knowlton VFW Post 9389. I would also like to honor 
Josephine Bell, an original charter member of the VFW Ladies Auxiliary 
in Caribou who is still with us today.
  These 70th anniversaries, of both the Lister-Knowlton VFW post and 
the ladies auxiliary, provide occasion to celebrate the storied 
tradition of service, both past and present, that the Veterans of 
Foreign Wars represent. Each of us is forever indebted to those members 
of the VFW who served in the protection of the United States and to 
their families for the care and support they have provided. We are also 
grateful to the VFW for their continued service, supporting those 
veterans who have returned, advocating on their behalf at all levels of 
government, and organizing a variety of community building projects.
  In closing, I am glad to join with the members of the VFW and the 
ladies auxiliary in Caribou in honoring this 70th year of working on 
behalf of veterans, the State of Maine, and our great Nation.

                          ____________________



