

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2518-S2521]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION

  Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control 
Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain 
proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification, 
the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be 
reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the 
notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
  In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant 
information is available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous consent to 
have printed in the Record the notifications which have been received. 
If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is 
available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations 
Committee, Room SD-423.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 17-18, 
     concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and 
     Acceptance to Canada for defense articles and services 
     estimated to cost $195 million. After this letter is 
     delivered to your office, we plan to issue a news release to 
     notify the public of this proposed sale.
           Sincerely,

                                                 Greg Kausner,

                                    (For J.W. Rixey, Vice Admiral,
                                                   USN, Director).
       Enclosures.


                         Transmittal No. 17-18

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Canada.
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment* $ 0 million.
       Other $195 million.
       Total $195 million.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase:
       Major Defense Equipment (MDE): None.
       Non-MDE: Non-MDE items and services under consideration for 
     sale are follow-on support for five (5) CC177 aircraft 
     (Canada's designator for the C-17), including contractor 
     logistics support (CLS) provided through the Globemaster III 
     Integrated Sustainment Program (GISP), in-country field 
     services support, alternate mission equipment, major 
     modification and retrofit, software support, aircraft 
     maintenance and technical support, support equipment, 
     personnel training and training equipment, additional spare 
     and repair parts, publications and technical documentation, 
     and other U.S. Government and contractor engineering, 
     logistics and program support.
       (iv) Military Department: Air Force (QCR).
       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: CN-D-QZZ--$1.3B--15 Nov 
     06.
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered. or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold,: None.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: April 19, 2017.

[[Page S2519]]

       *As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          POLICY JUSTIFICATION

      Government of Canada--Sustainment Support for C-17 Aircraft

       The Government of Canada has requested a possible sale of 
     follow-on support for five (5) CC177 aircraft (Canada's 
     designator for the C-17), including contractor logistics 
     support (CLS) provided through the Globemaster III Integrated 
     Sustainment Program (GISP), in-country field services 
     support, aircraft maintenance and technical support, support 
     equipment, alternate mission equipment, software support, 
     spares, personnel training and training equipment, U.S. 
     Government and contractor engineering and logistics support 
     services, publications and technical documentation, and major 
     modification and retrofit kits support. The total estimated 
     program cost is $195 million.
       This proposed sale will contribute to the foreign policy 
     and national security objectives of the United States by 
     sustaining the military capabilities of Canada, a NATO ally 
     that has been, and continues to be, an important force for 
     ensuring political stability and economic progress in the 
     world, including through its involvement in military, 
     peacekeeping, and humanitarian operations. The sustainment of 
     Canada's C-17s will ensure the country's continued capability 
     to rapidly deploy its forces, as well as the continued 
     interoperability between the U.S. and Canadian Air Forces' C-
     17s.
       The proposed sale of defense articles and services is 
     required to maintain the operational readiness of the Royal 
     Canadian Air Force C-17 aircraft. Canada's current contract 
     supporting its five (5) C-17s will expire on 20 September 
     2017. The Royal Canadian Air Force will have no difficulty 
     absorbing this support.
       The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not 
     alter the basic military balance in the region.
       Sources of supply will award contracts when necessary to 
     provide the defense articles ordered if items ordered are not 
     available from U.S. stock or are considered lead-time away.
       The prime contractor will involve the following 
     contractors:
       Boeing Company, Long Beach, California.
       Boeing Company Training Systems, St. Louis, Missouri.
       Lockheed Martin Corporation/MFC, Lexington, Kentucky.
       There are no known offsets. Any offset agreements will be 
     defined in negotiations between the purchaser and the 
     contractor.
       Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the 
     assignment of any additional U.S. Government or contractor 
     representatives to Canada. There is an on-going foreign 
     military sales case providing C-17 sustainment services. 
     There are currently 13 contractors from Boeing in-country 
     providing contractor technical services support on a 
     continuing basis.
       There will be no adverse impact to U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale.
                                  ____

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 17-10, 
     concerning the Army's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and 
     Acceptance to the Government of Iraq for defense articles and 
     services estimated to cost $295.6 million. After this letter 
     is delivered to your office, we plan to issue a news release 
     to notify the public of this proposed sale.
           Sincerely,
                                                       J.W. Rixey,
                                      Vice Admiral, USN, Director.
       Enclosures:


                         Transmittal No. 17-10

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser, Government of Iraq.
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment * $40.6 million.
       Other $255.0 million.
       Total $295.6 million.
       (iii) Description and Qantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase:
       Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
       Four thousand four hundred (4,400) M16A4 Rifles.
       Forty-six (46) M2 50 Caliber Machine Guns.
       One hundred eighty-six (186) M240B Machine Guns.
       Thirty-six (36) M1151 High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled 
     Vehicles (HMMWVs).
       Seventy-seven (77) M1151 up-armored HMMWVs.
       Non-MDE: All necessary equipment and accessories to outfit 
     two Peshmerga Regional Brigades and two support artillery 
     battalions, to include twelve (12) 3 kilowatt tactical quiet 
     generator sets, body armor, helmets, and other Organization 
     Clothing and Individual Equipment (OCIE); small arms and 
     associated accessories including tripods, cleaning kits, 
     magazines, and mounts; mortar systems and associated 
     equipment; Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and 
     Explosive (CBRNE) detection and protective equipment; 
     dismounted and mounted radio systems; commercial navigation 
     equipment including compasses, binoculars, and Geospatial 
     Position System (GPS) limited to the Standard Positioning 
     System (SPS); M1142 HMMWVs; medical equipment; Mine Resistant 
     Ambush Protected Vehicles (MRAP); cargo and transportation 
     equipment, including light tactical vehicles, medium tactical 
     vehicles, water trucks, fuel trucks, and ambulances; thirty-
     six (36) refurbished M119A2 105mm howitzers; RF-7800V Very 
     High Frequency (VHF) dismounted radios; spare parts, training 
     and associated equipment related to the mentioned vehicles 
     and artillery systems.
       (iv) Military Department: Army (ADI, ADJ).
       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee. etc., Paid. Offered, or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: None.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: April 18, 2017.
       *As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          POLICY JUSTIFICATION

 Government of Iraq--Equipment for Two Peshmerga Infantry Brigades and 
                    Two Support Artillery Battalions

       The Government of Iraq has requested a possible sale of the 
     equipment necessary to fully outfit two full Peshmerga 
     Regional Brigades of light infantry, as well as the equipment 
     necessary to outfit two artillery battalions that will 
     ultimately provide support to those regional brigades. These 
     artillery battalions and infantry brigades will operate under 
     the Kurdistan Regional Governments Ministry of Peshmerga (KRG 
     MOP) with the concurrence of the central government. 
     Requested equipment includes the following: (4,400) M16A4 
     rifles; (46) M2 50 caliber machine guns; (186) M240B machine 
     guns; (36) M1151 HMMWVs; (77) M1151 up-armored HMMWVs; (12) 3 
     Kilowatt Tactical Quiet Generator sets; body armor, helmets, 
     and other Organization Clothing and Individual Equipment 
     (OCIE); small arms and associated accessories including 
     tripods, cleaning kits, magazines, and mounts; mortar systems 
     and associated equipment; Chemical, Biological, Radiological, 
     Nuclear, and Explosive (CBRNE) detection and protective 
     equipment; dismounted and mounted radio systems; commercial 
     navigation equipment including compasses, binoculars, and 
     Geospatial Position System (GPS) limited to the Standard 
     Positioning System (SPS); M1142 HMMWVs; medical equipment; 
     Mine Resistant Ambush Protected Vehicles (MRAP); cargo and 
     transportation equipment, including light tactical vehicles, 
     medium tactical vehicles, water trucks, fuel trucks, and 
     ambulances; (36) refurbished M119A2 105mm howitzers; spare 
     parts, training and associated equipment related to the 
     mentioned vehicles and artillery systems.
       This proposed sale will contribute to the foreign policy 
     and national security objectives of the United States, by 
     supporting Iraq's capacity to degrade and defeat the Islamic 
     State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). Iraq will have no 
     difficulty absorbing this equipment into its armed forces.
       The proposed sale of this equipment and support will not 
     alter the basic military balance in the region.
       There are a number of contractors involved in this effort, 
     including but not limited to AM General, Oshkosh Defense, 
     Navistar Defense, Harris Radio, and Colt Corporation. There 
     are no known offset agreements proposed in connection with 
     this potential sale.
       Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the 
     deployment of any additional U.S. Government or contractor 
     personnel to Iraq.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale.


                         Transmittal No. 17-10

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act

                           Annex Item No. vii

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
       1. M16A4 Assault Rifle. The M16A4 assault rifle is the 
     fourth generation of the M16 series that fires 5.56mm NATO 
     cartridges. The A4 variant is equipped with a removable 
     carrying handle and full length quad Picatinny rail for 
     mounting optics and other ancillary devices. The highest 
     level of information that could be disclosed through the sale 
     and testing of this end-item is UNCLASSIFIED.
       2. M2 Machine Gun. The M2 machine gun is an air-cooled 
     belt-fed machine gun that fires the .50 caliber Browning 
     Machine Gun (BMG) cartridge. The highest level of information 
     that could be disclosed through the sale and testing of this 
     end-item is UNCLASSIFIED.
       3. M240B Machine Gun. The M240B machine gun is a belt-fed, 
     gas-operated medium machine gun firing 7.6251mm NATO 
     cartridges. The M240B variant is a tripod or vehicle-mounted 
     configuration. The highest level of information that could be 
     disclosed through the sale and testing of this end-item is 
     UNCLASSIFIED.
       4. M1151 HMMWV. The M1151 is an expanded capacity armament 
     carrier HMMWV variant that is armor-ready. Designed as an 
     armament carrier, the M1151 provides for the mounting and 
     firing of various weapon systems that are ring-mounted with a 
     360 degree-arc of fire. The level of information that could 
     be disclosed through the sale and testing of this end-item is 
     UNCLASSIFIED.

[[Page S2520]]

  

       5. Garmin Fortrex 401 Navigation Set/Global Positioning 
     System (GPS). The Garmin Fortrex is a commercial GPS solution 
     for individual navigation which utilizes GPS Selective 
     Positioning Service (SPS) mode only. This is a commercial-
     off-the-shelf item. The level of information that could be 
     disclosed through the sale and testing of this end-item is 
     UNCLASSIFIED.
       6. RF-7800V Very High Frequency (VHF) Dismounted Radio. The 
     RF-7800V is a multipurpose, exportable radio system that can 
     be configured for 10W handheld/dismounted, 50W vehicle, or 
     50W base station use. The system incorporates 128 and 256 bit 
     Harris proprietary and Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) 
     encryption and does not utilize SG/NATO waveforms. The system 
     has an integrated GPS receiver which is SPS capable only. 
     This radio is not used by the U.S. military and the highest 
     level of information that could be disclosed through the sale 
     and testing of this end-item is UNCLASSIFIED.
       7. Tactical Quiet Generator Set. The 3KW Tactical Quiet 
     Generator Set--Mobile Electric Power (MEP) 831A (60HZ) is a 
     mobile electrical generator that runs on JP/Diesel fuel. 
     These items are no longer in service with the U.S. military, 
     but are offered as refurbished articles to Foreign Military 
     Sales (FMS) customers. The highest level of information that 
     could be disclosed through the sale and testing of this end-
     item is UNCLASSIFIED.
       8. All other support and non-MDE equipment offered on this 
     case carry no technology transfer concerns. The highest level 
     of information that could be disclosed through the sale and 
     testing of this end-item is UNCLASSIFIED.
       9. All equipment and support listed on this transmittal are 
     authorized for release and export to the Government of Iraq.
                                  ____

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 17-03, 
     concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and 
     Acceptance to the Government of the Republic of Iraq for 
     defense articles and services estimated to cost $1.06 
     billion. After this letter is delivered to your office, we 
     plan to issue a news release to notify the public of this 
     proposed sale.
           Sincerely,
                                                       J.W. Rixey,
                                      Vice Admiral, USN, Director.
       Enclosures.


                         transmittal no. 17-03

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: The Government of Iraq.
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment * $0 billion.
       Other $1.06 billion.
       Total $1.06 billion.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase:
       Major Defense Equipment (MDE): None.
       Non-MDE: Pilot training; maintenance training; and 
     contractor logistical services support for C-172, C-208, and 
     T-6 aircraft for up to five (5) years to include contractor 
     aircraft modification; repair and spare parts; publications; 
     aircraft ferry; and miscellaneous parts, along with training 
     base operation support, base life support, security, 
     construction, and other related elements of program support.
       (iv) Military Department: Air Force (X7-D-NAA).
       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: N/A.
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: None.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: April 11, 2017.
       * As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          policy justification

Republic of Iraq--Pilot and Maintenance Training Contractor Logistical 
          Support (CLS) for Trainer Aircraft, and Base Support

       The Government of Iraq has requested a possible sale of 
     pilot training; maintenance training; and contractor 
     logistical services support for C-172, C-208, and T-6 
     aircraft for up to five (5) years to include contractor 
     aircraft modification; repair and spare parts; publications; 
     aircraft ferry; and miscellaneous parts, along with training 
     base operation support, base life support, security, 
     construction, and other related elements of program support. 
     The estimated total program value is $1.06 billion.
       The proposed sale will contribute to the foreign policy and 
     national security of the United States by helping to provide 
     for a stable, sovereign, and democratic Iraq, capable of 
     combating terrorism and protecting its people and 
     sovereignty. Iraq currently owns twelve (12) C-172, five (5) 
     C-208, and fifteen (15) T-6 training aircraft. The training 
     pipeline will allow the Iraqi Air Force to tailor pilot 
     training for several U.S.-origin operational aircraft. The C-
     172s and T-6s are Iraq's training platforms for their 
     mobility and fighter attack fleets. The C-208s are Iraq's 
     platform of choice for training its Intelligence, 
     Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) pilots.
       The proposed sale of training and support services will 
     improve Iraq's ability to train its pilots and maintenance 
     technicians. By training its own pilots and maintenance 
     technicians in-country, Iraq will decrease its overseas 
     training requirements, significantly reduce its training 
     costs, and will enhance its ability to take over the 
     sustainment of its aircraft. Iraq will have no difficulty 
     absorbing this support. In addition to its primary mission--
     pilot and maintenance training for Iraqi Air Force 
     personnel--this proposed sale includes Contractor Logistical 
     Support costs for the trainer aircraft, as well as possible 
     future construction and base operation support costs.
       The proposed sale of this training and support will not 
     alter the basic military balance in the region.
       The principal contractor is Spartan College, Tulsa, OK. At 
     this time, there are no known offset agreements proposed in 
     connection with this potential sale.
       Implementation of this proposed sale will require the 
     assignment of approximately four U.S. Government 
     representatives and 50-55 contractor representatives to Iraq.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale. All training and support 
     listed on this transmittal are authorized for release and 
     export to the Government of Iraq.
                                  ____

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 16-80, 
     concerning the Army Corps of Engineers' proposed Letter(s) of 
     Offer and Acceptance to the Government of Kuwait for airbase 
     construction and services estimated to cost $319 million. 
     After this letter is delivered to your office, we plan to 
     issue a news release to notify the public of this proposed 
     sale.
           Sincerely,
                                                       J.W. Rixey,
                                      Vice Admiral, USN, Director.
       Enclosures.


                         transmittal no. 16-80

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Kuwait.
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment * $0 million.
       Other $319 million.
       Total $319 million.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Ouantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase:
       Non-MDE: Design, construction, and procurement of key 
     airfield operations, command and control, readiness, 
     sustainment, and life support facilities for the Al Mubarak 
     Airbase in Kuwait. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) 
     will provide project management, engineering services, 
     technical support, facility and infrastructure assessments, 
     surveys, planning, programming, design, acquisition, contract 
     administration, construction management, and other technical 
     services for the construction of facilities and 
     infrastructure for the airbase. The overall project includes, 
     among other features, a main operations center, hangars, 
     training facilities, barracks, warehouses, support 
     facilities, and other infrastructure required for a fully 
     functioning airbase.
       (iv) Military Department: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 
     (USACE) (HBE).
       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: N/A.
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: None.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: April 6, 2017.
       * As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          policy justification

   Government of Kuwait--Facilities and Infrastructure Construction 
                            Support Service

       The Government of Kuwait has requested possible sale for 
     the design, construction, and procurement of key airfield 
     operations, command and control, readiness, sustainment, and 
     life support facilities for the Al Mubarak Airbase in Kuwait. 
     The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) will provide project 
     management, engineering services, technical support, facility 
     and infrastructure assessments, surveys, planning, 
     programming, design, acquisition, contract administration, 
     construction management, and other technical services for the 
     construction of facilities and infrastructure for the 
     airbase. The overall project includes, among other features, 
     a main operations center, hangars, training facilities, 
     barracks, warehouses, support facilities, and other 
     infrastructure required for a fully functioning airbase. The 
     estimated total cost is $319 million.
       The proposed sale will contribute to the foreign policy and 
     national security of the United States by supporting the 
     infrastructure needs of a friendly country which has been, 
     and continues to be, an important

[[Page S2521]]

     force for political stability and economic progress in the 
     Middle East.
       The facilities being constructed are similar to other 
     facilities built in the past by USACE in other Middle Eastern 
     countries. These facilities replace existing facilities and 
     will provide autonomous airbase operations to the Kuwait Air 
     Force. The new airbase will ensure the continued readiness of 
     the Kuwait Air Force and allow for the continued education of 
     current and future Kuwait Air Force personnel. The 
     construction of this airbase will enable Kuwait to enhance 
     the operational effectiveness of its military and promote 
     security and stability throughout Kuwait. Kuwait will have no 
     difficulty absorbing this additional capability into its 
     armed forces.
       The proposed sale of this infrastructure and support will 
     not alter the basic military balance in the region.
       USACE is the principal organization that will direct and 
     manage this program. USACE will provide services through both 
     in-house personnel and contract services. The estimated 
     number of U.S. Government and contractor representatives to 
     be assigned to Kuwait to implement the provisions of this 
     proposed sale will be determined as a result of program 
     definitization.
       There are no known offset agreements proposed in connection 
     with this potential sale.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale. All defense articles and 
     services listed in this transmittal are authorized for 
     release and export to the Government of Kuwait.

                          ____________________



