

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2720-S2721]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mrs. CAPITO:
       S. 1013. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide tax benefits for investments in gigabit 
     opportunity zones; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. FISCHER (for herself and Mr. Booker):
       S. 1014. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
     to make grants to eligible organizations to provide service 
     dogs to veterans with severe post-traumatic stress disorder, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself and Mr. Donnelly):
       S. 1015. A bill to require the Federal Communications 
     Commission to study the feasibility of designating a simple, 
     easy-to-remember dialing code to be used for a national 
     suicide prevention and mental health crisis hotline system; 
     to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. Wicker, Mr. Cochran, 
             Mr. Cardin, Mr. Thune, and Mr. Warner):
       S. 1016. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to expand access to telehealth services, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. HOEVEN (for himself and Ms. Heitkamp):
       S. 1017. A bill to designate the Red River Valley 
     Agricultural Research Center in Fargo, North Dakota, as the 
     ``Edward T. Schafer Agricultural Research Center''; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Durbin, Mr. 
             Cornyn, Mr. Menendez, Mr. McCain, Mr. Nelson, Mr. 
             Kaine, and Mr. Van Hollen):
       S. 1018. A bill to provide humanitarian assistance for the 
     Venezuelan people, to defend democratic governance and combat 
     widespread public corruption in Venezuela, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL:
       S. 1019. A bill for the relief of Luis Barrios; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr. Reed, Mr. Kaine, Mr. 
             Whitehouse,

[[Page S2721]]

             Mr. Blumenthal, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Manchin, Mrs. 
             Gillibrand, Ms. Warren, Mr. Franken, Mr. Merkley, and 
             Ms. Hirono):
       S. 1020. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide for the proper tax treatment of personal service 
     income earned in pass-thru entities; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, and Mr. 
             Boozman):
       S. 1021. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury to 
     mint coins in commemoration of the United States Coast Guard; 
     to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Ms. Duckworth, and Mr. 
             Cornyn):
       S. 1022. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     facilitate assignment of military trauma care providers to 
     civilian trauma centers in order to maintain military trauma 
     readiness and to support such centers, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Mr. Burr, Mr. Whitehouse, 
             Mr. Udall, and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 1023. A bill to reauthorize the Tropical Forest 
     Conservation Act of 1998 through fiscal year 2021, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. 
             Tester, Mr. Daines, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Udall, Mr. King, 
             Ms. Baldwin, and Mr. Kaine):
       S. 1024. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     reform the rights and processes relating to appeals of 
     decisions regarding claims for benefits under the laws 
     administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself and Mrs. Shaheen):
       S. 1025. A bill to reform the Federal Crop Insurance Act 
     and reduce Federal spending on crop insurance; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Whitehouse, 
             Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Udall, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Carper, 
             and Mr. Blumenthal):
       S. 1026. A bill to amend the Federal Funding Accountability 
     and Transparency Act of 2006 to require full disclosure for 
     entities receiving Federal funding; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Crapo, Ms. 
             Cantwell, Mr. Risch, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Daines, Mr. 
             Manchin, Mr. Gardner, Mrs. Feinstein, Ms. Murkowski, 
             Mr. Tester, Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Bennet, and Mr. 
             Merkley):
       S. 1027. A bill to extend the Secure Rural Schools and 
     Community Self-Determination Act of 2000; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Ms. Baldwin, Ms. 
             Murkowski, and Mr. Bennet):
       S. 1028. A bill to provide for the establishment and 
     maintenance of a National Family Caregiving Strategy, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
     and Pensions.
           By Mr. KING (for himself and Mr. Flake):
       S. 1029. A bill to amend the Public Utility Regulatory 
     Policies Act of 1978 to exempt certain small hydroelectric 
     power projects that are applying for relicensing under the 
     Federal Power Act from the licensing requirements of that 
     Act; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KING (for himself and Mr. Flake):
       S. 1030. A bill to require the Federal Energy Regulatory 
     Commission to submit to Congress a report on certain 
     hydropower projects; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. DAINES:
       S. 1031. A bill to amend provisions in the securities laws 
     relating to regulation crowdfunding to raise the dollar 
     amount limit and to clarify certain requirements and 
     exclusions for funding portals established by such an Act; to 
     the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. ROBERTS:
       S. 1032. A bill to amend the Cooperative Forestry 
     Assistance Act of 1978 to provide for good neighbor 
     agreements to conduct authorized restoration services on 
     National Forest System land; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
     Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. ROBERTS:
       S. 1033. A bill to amend the Healthy Forests Restoration 
     Act of 2003 to provide for stewardship contracting projects, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
     Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Bennet, 
             Ms. Hirono, and Ms. Harris):
       S. 1034. A bill to improve agricultural job opportunities, 
     benefits, and security for aliens in the United States, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself, Mr. Murphy, Mrs. Murray, 
             Mr. Wyden, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Hassan, 
             Mr. Carper, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Blumenthal, Mrs. 
             Shaheen, Ms. Harris, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. 
             Merkley, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Booker, and Mr. Cardin):
       S. 1035. A bill to amend the Employee Retirement Income 
     Security Act of 1974 with respect to the scope of employee 
     pension benefit plans; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. King, Mr. Merkley, Mr. 
             Schatz, and Ms. Hirono):
       S. 1036. A bill to promote research, development, and 
     demonstration of marine and hydrokinetic renewable energy 
     technologies, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.

                          ____________________



