

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 106 (Wednesday, June 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 106 (Wednesday, June 21, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3686-S3688]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 198

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) was added as a cosponsor of S. 198, a bill to 
require continued and enhanced annual reporting to Congress in the 
Annual Report on International Religious Freedom on anti-Semitic 
incidents in Europe, the safety and security of European Jewish 
communities, and the efforts of the United States to partner with 
European governments, the European Union, and civil society groups, to 
combat anti-Semitism, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 294

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 294, a bill to amend the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to clarify the Food and Drug 
Administration's jurisdiction over certain tobacco products, and to 
protect jobs and small businesses involved in the sale, manufacturing 
and distribution of traditional and premium cigars.


                                 S. 298

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 298, a bill to 
require Senate candidates to file designations, statements, and reports 
in electronic form.


                                 S. 340

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Lankford) was added as a cosponsor of S. 340, a bill to clarify 
Congressional intent regarding the regulation of the use of pesticides 
in or near navigable waters, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 486

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 486, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of

[[Page S3687]]

the Social Security Act to provide for the non-application of Medicare 
competitive acquisition rates to complex rehabilitative wheelchairs and 
accessories.


                                 S. 515

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 515, a bill to require 
the Secretary of Labor to maintain a publicly available list of all 
employers that relocate a call center overseas, to make such companies 
ineligible for Federal grants or guaranteed loans, and to require 
disclosure of the physical location of business agents engaging in 
customer service communications, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the names of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) and the Senator from Texas (Mr. Cruz) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 540, a bill to limit the authority of States to tax 
certain income of employees for employment duties performed in other 
States.


                                 S. 717

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 717, a bill 
to promote pro bono legal services as a critical way in which to 
empower survivors of domestic violence.


                                 S. 777

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 777, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow deductions and credits relating 
to expenditures in connection with marijuana sales conducted in 
compliance with State law.


                                 S. 823

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 823, a bill to ensure the 
digital contents of electronic equipment and online accounts belonging 
to or in the possession of United States persons entering or exiting 
the United States are adequately protected at the border, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 829

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 829, a bill to reauthorize 
the Assistance to Firefighters Grants program, the Fire Prevention and 
Safety Grants program, and the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency 
Response grant program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 856

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 856, a bill to 
amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 and the Jeanne Clery Disclosure 
of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act to combat 
campus sexual assault, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 905

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 905, a bill to require a 
report on, and to authorize technical assistance for, accountability 
for war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide in Syria, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1013

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1013, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide tax benefits for investments 
in gigabit opportunity zones.


                                S. 1020

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1020, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for the proper tax 
treatment of personal service income earned in pass-thru entities.


                                S. 1091

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1091, a bill 
to establish a Federal Task Force to Support Grandparents Raising 
Grandchildren.


                                S. 1174

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the names of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) and the Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1174, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to provide that a deduction equal to fair market value shall be 
allowed for charitable contributions of literary, musical, artistic, or 
scholarly compositions created by the donor.


                                S. 1182

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1182, a bill to 
require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint commemorative coins in 
recognition of the 100th anniversary of The American Legion.


                                S. 1256

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1256, a bill to 
award a Congressional Gold Medal to the 23d Headquarters, Special 
Troops and the 3133d Signal Service Company in recognition of their 
unique and distinguished service as a ``Ghost Army'' that conducted 
deception operations in Europe during World War II.


                                S. 1311

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. 
Wicker), the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Thune) and the Senator from 
Hawaii (Ms. Hirono) were added as cosponsors of S. 1311, a bill to 
provide assistance in abolishing human trafficking in the United 
States.


                                S. 1312

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1312, a 
bill to prioritize the fight against human trafficking in the United 
States.


                                S. 1320

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1320, a bill to reform 
apportionments to general aviation airports under the airport 
improvement program, to improve project delivery at certain airports, 
and to designate certain airports as disaster relief airports, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1352

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1352, a bill to 
establish a tax credit for on-site apprenticeship programs, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1353

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1353, a bill to require 
States to automatically register eligible voters to vote in elections 
for Federal offices, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1357

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1357, a bill to amend title 
XIX of the Social Security Act to provide a standard definition of 
therapeutic family care services in Medicaid.


                              S.J. RES. 8

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from California 
(Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 8, a joint 
resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United 
States relating to contributions and expenditures intended to affect 
elections.


                              S.J. RES. 46

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 46, a joint 
resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United 
States authorizing the Congress to prohibit the physical desecration of 
the flag of the United States.


                              S. RES. 102

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Mr. Johnson) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 102, a resolution 
reaffirming the strategic partnership between the United States and 
Mexico, and recognizing bilateral cooperation that advances the 
national security and national interests of both countries.


                              S. RES. 195

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator from

[[Page S3688]]

California (Mrs. Feinstein) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 195, a 
resolution recognizing June 20, 2017, as ``World Refugee Day''.

                          ____________________



