

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3859-S3860]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 27

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, her name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 27, a bill to establish an independent commission to examine and 
report on the facts regarding the extent of Russian official and 
unofficial cyber operations and other attempts to interfere in the 2016 
United States national election, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 41

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, her name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 41, a bill to amend part D of title XVIII of the Social Security Act 
to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate 
covered part D drug prices on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries.


                                 S. 45

  At the request of Mr. Cruz, the name of the Senator from South Dakota 
(Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 45, a bill to amend the 
Immigration and Nationality Act to increase penalties for individuals 
who illegally reenter the United States after being removed and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 65

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, her name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 65, a bill to address financial conflicts of interest of the 
President and Vice President.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 407, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the railroad track 
maintenance credit.


                                 S. 474

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Barrasso) was added as a cosponsor of S. 474, a bill to condition 
assistance to the West Bank and Gaza on steps by the Palestinian 
Authority to end violence and terrorism against Israeli citizens.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage of 
certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of durable 
medical equipment.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 540, a bill to limit the authority of 
States to tax certain income of employees for employment duties 
performed in other States.


                                 S. 736

  At the request of Mr. Enzi, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 736, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for collegiate 
housing and infrastructure grants.


                                 S. 839

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 839, a bill to allow for 
judicial review of any final rule addressing national emission 
standards for hazardous air pollutants for brick and structural clay 
products or for clay ceramics manufacturing before requiring compliance 
with such rule.


                                S. 1002

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1002, a bill to enhance the 
ability of community financial institutions to foster economic growth 
and serve their communities, boost small businesses, increase 
individual savings, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1024

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi), the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds) and the Senator 
from New Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) were added as cosponsors of S. 1024, a 
bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to reform the rights and 
processes relating to appeals of decisions regarding claims for 
benefits under the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs, and for other purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the names of the Senator from 
Florida (Mr. Nelson) and the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1024, supra.


                                S. 1028

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. 
Klobuchar) were added as cosponsors of S. 1028, a bill to provide for 
the establishment and maintenance of a National Family Caregiving 
Strategy, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1034

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1034, a bill to improve 
agricultural job opportunities, benefits, and security for aliens in 
the United States, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1136

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, her name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 1136, a bill to improve the structure of the Federal Pell Grant 
program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1162

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, her name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 1162, a bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to provide 
for the refinancing of certain Federal student loans, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1182

  At the request of Mr. Young, the names of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1182, a bill to require the Secretary of the 
Treasury to mint commemorative coins in recognition of the 100th 
anniversary of The American Legion.


                                S. 1196

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1196, a bill to expand the 
capacity and capability of the ballistic missile defense system of the 
United States, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1277

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1277, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out a high technology education 
pilot program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1279

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1279, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to furnish health care from the Department of 
Veterans Affairs through the use of non-Department health care 
providers, and for other purposes.

[[Page S3860]]

  



                                S. 1312

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1312, a bill to prioritize 
the fight against human trafficking in the United States.
  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Illinois (Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1312, supra.


                                S. 1349

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1349, a bill to provide 
that the rate of military basic pay for the Senior Enlisted Advisors to 
the commanders of the combatant commands shall be equivalent to the 
rate of military basic pay for the Senior Enlisted Advisor to the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1366

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1366, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of Defense to review the discharge characterization of former 
members of the Armed Forces who were discharged by reason of the sexual 
orientation of the member, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1368

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1368, a bill to 
reauthorize the National Flood Insurance Program, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1393

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1393, a bill to streamline the process by 
which active duty military, reservists, and veterans receive commercial 
driver's licenses.


                                S. 1412

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from 
Vermont (Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1412, a bill to 
amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to provide for a percentage of 
student loan forgiveness for public service employment, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1418

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1418, a bill to 
establish protections for passengers in air transportation, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1426

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the names of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) and the Senator from Alaska (Mr. Sullivan) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1426, a bill to amend the Ted Stevens Olympic and 
Amateur Sports Act to expand the purposes of the corporation, to 
designate the United States Center for Safe Sport, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1435

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1435, a bill to provide an amnesty 
period during which veterans and their family members can register 
certain firearms in the National Firearm Registration and Transfer 
Record, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1465

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1465, a bill to terminate 
the prohibitions on the exportation and importation of natural gas, and 
for other purposes.


                               S. RES. 61

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 61, a resolution calling on 
the Department of Defense, other elements of the Federal Government, 
and foreign governments to intensify efforts to investigate, recover, 
and identify all missing and unaccounted-for personnel of the United 
States.


                              S. RES. 168

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 168, a resolution 
supporting respect for human rights and encouraging inclusive 
governance in Ethiopia.
  At the request of Mr. Casey, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
Res. 168, supra.

                          ____________________



