

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 117 (Wednesday, July 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 117 (Wednesday, July 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3960-S3961]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. YOUNG (for himself and Mr. Manchin):
       S. 1531. A bill to require reporting by the Secretary of 
     Education on the implementation of recent Government 
     Accountability Office recommendations; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, and Mr. 
             Nelson):
       S. 1532. A bill to disqualify from operating a commercial 
     motor vehicle for life an individual who uses a commercial 
     motor vehicle in committing a felony involving human 
     trafficking; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Cotton, 
             Mr. Udall, Mr. Heinrich, and Mr. Brown):
       S. 1533. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to cover physician services delivered by podiatric 
     physicians to ensure access by Medicaid beneficiaries to 
     appropriate quality foot and ankle care, to amend title XVIII 
     of such Act to modify the requirements for diabetic shoes to 
     be included under Medicare, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. WICKER (for himself and Mr. Blumenthal):
       S. 1534. A bill to direct the Federal Communications 
     Commission to amend its rules so as to prohibit the 
     application to amateur stations of certain private land use 
     restrictions, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Ms. HEITKAMP (for herself, Mrs. Capito, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Mr. Barrasso, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Graham, Mr. 
             Schatz, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Booker, Mr. Portman, Mr. 
             Tester, Mr. Cochran, Mr. Casey, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. 
             Durbin, Mr. Franken, Mr. Brown, Mr.

[[Page S3961]]

             Warner, Mr. Donnelly, Mr. Manchin, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. 
             Peters, Mr. Coons, Mr. Bennet, and Mr. King):
       S. 1535. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to improve, expand, and extend the credit for carbon dioxide 
     sequestration; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr. Thune, and Mr. 
             Nelson):
       S. 1536. A bill to designate a human trafficking prevention 
     coordinator and to expand the scope of activities authorized 
     under the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration's 
     outreach and education program to include human trafficking 
     prevention activities, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. Coons, Mr. Van Hollen, 
             Mr. Franken, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Udall, Mrs. Feinstein, 
             Mr. Carper, Mr. Leahy, and Mr. Portman):
       S. 1537. A bill to amend the Neotropical Migratory Bird 
     Conservation Act to reauthorize the Act; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr. Risch):
       S. 1538. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     establish awareness of, and technical assistance for, the 
     creation of employee stock ownership plans, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Small Business and 
     Entrepreneurship.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Ms. Hirono, and Mrs. 
             Feinstein):
       S. 1539. A bill to protect victims of stalking from gun 
     violence; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr. Brown, and Mr. 
             Peters):
       S. 1540. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to allow a credit against tax for investments in qualified 
     production facilities; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CASSIDY:
       S. 1541. A bill to modify the definition of an antique 
     firearm; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. HATCH:
       S. 1542. A bill for the relief of James Doyle, doing 
     business as Rocky Mountain Ventures and Environmental Land 
     Technologies, Ltd; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL:
       S. 1543. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     improve protections for a member of the Armed Forces who is a 
     survivor of a sexual assault during military service 
     regarding the separation, or the characterization of any 
     separation, of the member from the Armed Forces, to make 
     additional changes to the authorities and procedures of 
     boards for the correction of military records and discharge 
     review boards, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Durbin, 
             Mr. Reed, Ms. Warren, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Markey, Ms. 
             Duckworth, Mr. Franken, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Mrs. Murray, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. Harris, 
             and Mr. Merkley):
       S. 1544. A bill to prevent Federal funds from being used to 
     establish a cybersecurity unit in cooperation with the 
     Russian Federation; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr. Carper, Mr. Coons, Mr. 
             Nelson, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Kaine, Mr. King, Mr. Peters, 
             Mr. Tester, and Ms. Stabenow):
       S. 1545. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide the same level of Federal matching assistance 
     for every State that chooses to expand Medicaid coverage to 
     newly eligible individuals, regardless of when such expansion 
     takes place; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr. Manchin, Ms. Heitkamp, 
             and Mr. King):
       S. 1546. A bill to amend the Patient Protection and 
     Affordable Care Act to provide greater flexibility in 
     offering health insurance coverage across State lines; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr. Menendez, Ms. Harris, 
             Ms. Cortez Masto, Ms. Hirono, Ms. Duckworth, Mrs. 
             Gillibrand, Mr. Markey, Mr. Reed, Mr. Franken, Mr. 
             Durbin, Mr. Coons, Mr. Brown, Mr. Carper, Mrs. 
             Murray, Mr. Casey, Ms. Hassan, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Murphy, Mrs. 
             Feinstein, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Udall, Ms. Warren, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Schumer, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. 
             Merkley, Mr. Schatz, and Ms. Cantwell):
       S. 1547. A bill to nullify the effect of the recent 
     Executive order that establishes an ``election integrity'' 
     commission, which will be used and is designed to support 
     policies that will suppress the vote in minority and poor 
     communities across the United States; to the Committee on 
     Rules and Administration.

                          ____________________



