

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 61 (Friday, April 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 61 (Friday, April 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2449-S2450]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself and Mr. Franken):
       S. 888. A bill to amend the Higher Education Opportunity 
     Act to add disclosure requirements to the institution 
     financial aid offer form and to amend the Higher Education 
     Act of 1965 to make such form mandatory; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself and Mr. Franken):
       S. 889. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to 
     make technical improvements to the Net Price Calculator 
     system so that prospective students may have a more accurate 
     understanding of the true cost of college; to the Committee 
     on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr. Heinrich):
       S. 890. A bill to grant the Congressional Gold Medal to the 
     troops who defended Bataan during World War II; to the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Blumenthal, 
             Ms. Baldwin, and Mr. Merkley):
       S. 891. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     require contracting officers to consider information 
     regarding domestic employment before awarding a Federal 
     defense contract, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and Mr. McCain):
       S. 892. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     establish additional registration requirements for 
     prescribers of opioids, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. SHELBY:
       S. 893. A bill to repeal the current Internal Revenue Code 
     and replace it with a flat tax, thereby guaranteeing economic 
     growth and fairness for all Americans; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. DAINES:
       S. 894. A bill to amend title 40, United States Code, to 
     provide requirements for the disposal of surplus Federal 
     property relating to review of bidders and post-sale 
     responsibilities; to the Committee on Environment and Public 
     Works.
           By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself and Mr. Booker):
       S. 895. A bill to require the Secretary of Energy to 
     establish a comprehensive program to improve education and 
     training for energy- and manufacturing-related jobs to 
     increase the number of skilled workers trained to work in 
     energy- and manufacturing-related fields, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BURR (for himself, Mr. Bennet, Ms. Collins, Mr. 
             Gardner, Mr. Daines, Mrs. Shaheen, and Mr. Heinrich):
       S. 896. A bill to permanently reauthorize the Land and 
     Water Conservation Fund; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Brown, 
             Mr. Cardin, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Franken, Ms. Klobuchar, 
             Mr. Murphy, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Udall, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Mr. Markey, and Mr. Merkley):
       S. 897. A bill to protect civilians from cluster munitions, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Relations.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Ms. Collins, and Ms. 
             Heitkamp):
       S. 898. A bill to provide incentives to physicians to 
     practice in rural and medically underserved communities, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mr. Moran, and Mr. Tester):
       S. 899. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     ensure that the requirements that new Federal employees who 
     are veterans with service-connected disabilities are provided 
     leave for purposes of undergoing medical treatment for such 
     disabilities apply to certain employees of the Veterans 
     Health Administration, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mr. Reed, Mr. Franken, Ms. 
             Stabenow, Mr. Markey, Mr. Heinrich, and Ms. 
             Klobuchar):
       S. 900. A bill to improve the Federal Pell Grant program, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mr. Rounds, Ms. Cantwell, 
             Ms. Hassan, Mrs. Murray, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Schatz, 
             Mr. Warner, Ms. Collins, and Mr. Kaine):
       S. 901. A bill to prohibit any reduction in the amount of 
     the per diem allowance to which members of the Army, Navy, 
     Air Force, and Marine Corps or civilian employees of the 
     Department of Defense are entitled based on the duration of 
     temporary duty assignments or official travel, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mrs. McCASKILL (for herself and Mr. Daines):
       S. 902. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to provide for certain acquisition authorities for the Under 
     Secretary of Management of the Department of Homeland 
     Security, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr. Tester):
       S. 903. A bill to amend the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus 
     Health Services Act of 2010 to extend and expand the pilot 
     program on the use of community-based organizations and local 
     and State government entities to ensure that veterans receive 
     care and benefits for which they are eligible and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. 
             Shelby, Mr. Whitehouse, and Mr. Strange):
       S. 904. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to authorize the National Computer Forensics Institute, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.

[[Page S2450]]

  

           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Corker, Mrs. 
             Shaheen, Mr. Menendez, and Mr. Young):
       S. 905. A bill to require a report on, and to authorize 
     technical assistance for, accountability for war crimes, 
     crimes against humanity, and genocide in Syria, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mrs. McCASKILL (for herself and Mr. Daines):
       S. 906. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to provide for congressional notification regarding major 
     acquisition program breaches, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI:
       S. 907. A bill to authorize the modification of the Second 
     Division Memorial, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr. Peters, and Ms. 
             Baldwin):
       S. 908. A bill to amend chapter 83 of title 41, United 
     States Code, to increase the requirement for American-made 
     content, to strengthen the waiver provisions, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. THUNE:
       S. 909. A bill to amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to 
     extend and improve conservation programs, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
     Forestry.
           By Mr. SCHUMER (for himself, Mr. Casey, and Ms. 
             Warren):
       S. 910. A bill to prohibit discrimination against 
     individuals with disabilities who need long-term services and 
     supports, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Mr. Toomey):
       S. 911. A bill to direct the Administrator of the Federal 
     Aviation Administration to issue an order with respect to 
     secondary cockpit barriers, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.

                          ____________________



