

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3284]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      TRIBUTE TO NANCY E. DiCARLO

  Mr. SHELBY. Madam President, today I wish to pay tribute to the work 
and 37-year career of Ms. Nancy E. DiCarlo on the occasion of her 
retirement from the Department of Defense.
  Since January 2007, Ms. DiCarlo has served as the Director for 
International Affairs for the U.S. Missile Defense Agency. In this 
capacity, Ms. DiCarlo has played an important role in the successful 
initial fielding of our integrated, layered, ballistic missile defense 
system, which currently protects our Nation, American troops deployed 
abroad, and our friends and allies from attack by ballistic missiles.
  Ms. DiCarlo's career has been marked by increasing responsibility 
across a number of departments and programs important to the national 
security of the United States. Beginning her career in the Department 
of the U.S. Navy, Ms. DiCarlo contributed to the cost, schedule, and 
performance of the Navy's F/A-18 international programs, undersea 
surveillance programs, electronic hardware programs, and logistics 
programs.
  Her performance caught the attention of the Assistant Secretary of 
the Navy for Research, Development & Acquisition, who selected Ms. 
DiCarlo to join the Navy acquisition team. In this role, she worked on 
a strategic implementation plan and performance measures across the 
Navy acquisition enterprise.
  Ms. DiCarlo went on to join the U.S. Defense Security Cooperation 
Agency and lead both military and civilian staff in the management of 
Asian, European, NATO, and African security cooperation strategy, 
programs, and engagement. She was later selected for the Senior 
Executive Service and named as MDA's Director for International Affairs 
for MDA, where she diligently promoted U.S. national security goals and 
objectives.
  Her service has assisted the sale of U.S. missile defense assets 
which has strengthened the cooperation of our international partners, 
thereby expanding the capabilities and effectiveness of U.S. missile 
defenses.
  Additionally, Ms. DiCarlo's efforts have enhanced the U.S. 
partnership with the Government of Israel on missile defense programs. 
As the lead U.S. negotiator, she instituted codevelopment programs for 
the David's Sling Weapon System to defend Israel against long-range 
rockets and short-range ballistic missile threats and for the Upper 
Tier Interceptor Program as part of the Arrow Weapon System designed to 
defend Israel against longer-range ballistic missile threats. Ms. 
DiCarlo led negotiations with Israel on coproduction agreements for 
Iron Dome and David's Sling Weapon Systems.
  The American people rely upon civilian and uniformed Federal 
employees to protect and advance their interests. Our country has been 
fortunate to have had Ms. Nancy DiCarlo's dedication and contribution 
to our Nation's defense for nearly four decades.
  I hope my colleagues in the Senate will join me in recognizing Ms. 
Nancy DiCarlo for her work and thanking all of the men and women of the 
Missile Defense Agency for their service to our Nation.

                          ____________________



