

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 129 (Monday, July 31, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 129 (Monday, July 31, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4619-S4620]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. CARPER (for himself, Ms. Collins, Mr. Brown, Mr. 
             Cardin, Mr. Reed, Mr. Coons, Mr. King, Mr. Schatz, 
             Mr. Markey, Mr. Menendez, Ms. Warren, and Mr. 
             Whitehouse):
       S. 1672. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide for an investment tax credit related to the 
     production of electricity from offshore wind; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. Durbin, and Mr. Van 
             Hollen):
       S. 1673. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code to 
     include in income the unrepatriated earnings of groups that 
     include an inverted corporation; to the Committee on Finance.

[[Page S4620]]

  

           By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. Brown, Ms. Cortez Masto, 
             Ms. Hassan, Ms. Warren, Mr. Whitehouse, Ms. Hirono, 
             and Mr. Cardin):
       S. 1674. A bill to provide grants for the repair, 
     renovation, and construction of public elementary schools and 
     secondary schools, to establish a school infrastructure bond 
     program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BLUNT (for himself, Ms. Warren, Mr. Lankford, 
             and Mrs. Shaheen):
       S. 1675. A bill to promote quality student loan servicing 
     by improving the borrower experience for borrowers of Federal 
     Direct Loans; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
     and Pensions.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 1676. A bill to amend the Rural Electrification Act of 
     1936 to provide grants for access to broadband 
     telecommunications services in rural areas, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
     Forestry.
           By Mr. DONNELLY (for himself and Mr. Strange):
       S. 1677. A bill to amend the Food, Agriculture, 
     Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 to improve access to 
     grants and loans for evidence-based substance use disorder 
     treatment services in rural areas, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. DONNELLY (for himself and Mr. Roberts):
       S. 1678. A bill to amend the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
     Development Act to improve access to grants and loans for 
     evidence-based substance use disorder treatment services in 
     rural areas, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Mr. Blumenthal, and Mr. 
             Durbin):
       S. 1679. A bill to amend the Foreign Agents Registration 
     Act of 1938 to increase enforcement of certain violations and 
     strengthen certain transparency requirements; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Wyden, 
             Mr. Merkley, and Mr. Booker):
       S. 1680. A bill to decrease the incidence of food waste, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
     Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. SANDERS:
       S. 1681. A bill to require persons who undertake Federally 
     funded research and development of drugs to enter into 
     reasonable pricing agreements with the Secretary of Health 
     and Human Services; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.

                          ____________________



