

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 100 (Tuesday, June 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 100 (Tuesday, June 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3456-S3457]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 109

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 109, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for coverage under the 
Medicare program of pharmacist services.


                                 S. 122

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 122, a bill to prevent 
homeowners from being forced to pay taxes on forgiven mortgage loan 
debt.


                                 S. 170

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mr. Sasse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 170, a bill to provide for 
nonpreemption of measures by State and local governments to divest from 
entities that engage in commerce-related or investment-related boycott, 
divestment, or sanctions activities targeting Israel, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 251

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 251, a bill to repeal the 
Independent Payment Advisory Board in order to ensure that it cannot be 
used to undermine the Medicare entitlement for beneficiaries.


                                 S. 567

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 567, a bill to amend 
the Home Owners' Loan Act to allow Federal savings associations to 
elect to operate as national banks, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 722

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the names of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mr. Sasse) and the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Burr) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 722, a bill to impose sanctions with respect to 
Iran in relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, support for acts 
of international terrorism, and violations of human rights, and for 
other purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from 
California (Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 722, supra.


                                 S. 769

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 769, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to align physician supervision 
requirements under the Medicare program for radiology services 
performed by advanced level radiographers with State requirements.


                                 S. 829

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 829, a bill to reauthorize 
the Assistance to Firefighters Grants program, the Fire Prevention and 
Safety Grants program, and the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency 
Response grant program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 916

  At the request of Mr. Hoeven, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
916, a bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act with regard to the 
provision of emergency medical services.


                                 S. 954

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 954, a bill to 
prevent harassment at institutions of higher education, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 960

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) and the Senator

[[Page S3457]]

from Montana (Mr. Daines) were added as cosponsors of S. 960, a bill to 
amend title 44, United States Code, to protect open, machine-readable 
databases.


                                 S. 967

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 967, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to increase access to ambulance 
services under the Medicare program and to reform payments for such 
services under such program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1020

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1020, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for the proper tax 
treatment of personal service income earned in pass-thru entities.


                                S. 1055

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1055, a bill to restrict 
the exportation of certain defense articles to the Philippine National 
Police, to work with the Philippines to support civil society and a 
public health approach to substance abuse, to report on Chinese and 
other sources of narcotics to the Republic of the Philippines, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1099

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1099, a bill to provide 
for the identification and prevention of improper payments and the 
identification of strategic sourcing opportunities by reviewing and 
analyzing the use of Federal agency charge cards.


                                S. 1109

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1109, a bill to amend 
title VIII of the Public Health Service Act to extend advanced 
education nursing grants to support clinical nurse specialist programs, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1151

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1151, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide a nonrefundable credit for 
working family caregivers.


                                S. 1158

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1158, a bill to help 
prevent acts of genocide and other atrocity crimes, which threaten 
national and international security, by enhancing United States 
Government capacities to prevent, mitigate, and respond to such crises.


                                S. 1169

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1169, a bill to amend title 
XIX of the Social Security Act to provide States with an option to 
provide medical assistance to individuals between the ages of 22 and 64 
for inpatient services to treat substance use disorders at certain 
facilities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1186

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1186, a bill to authorize 
the Secretary of Transportation to designate certain entities as 
centers of excellence for domestic maritime workforce training and 
education, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1194

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1194, a bill to provide for the 
coverage of medically necessary food and vitamins for digestive and 
inherited metabolic disorders under Federal health programs and private 
health insurance, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1221

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Portman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1221, a bill to counter the 
influence of the Russian Federation in Europe and Eurasia, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1303

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1303, a bill 
to prohibit discrimination in adoption or foster care placements based 
on the sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of any 
prospective adoptive or foster parent, or the sexual orientation or 
gender identity of the child involved.


                                S. 1307

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1307, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to expand eligibility to 
receive refundable tax credits for coverage under a qualified health 
plan.


                                S. 1312

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Utah 
(Mr. Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1312, a bill to prioritize 
the fight against human trafficking in the United States.


                                S. 1337

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1337, a bill to amend the Energy 
Policy Act of 2005 to make certain strategic energy infrastructure 
projects eligible for certain loan guarantees, and for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 16

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 16, a joint 
resolution approving the discontinuation of the process for 
consideration and automatic implementation of the annual proposal of 
the Independent Medicare Advisory Board under section 1899A of the 
Social Security Act.


                              S.J. RES. 42

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 42, a 
joint resolution relating to the disapproval of the proposed export to 
the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia of certain defense 
articles.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 232

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the names of the Senator from Kentucky 
(Mr. McConnell), the Senator from New York (Mr. Schumer), the Senator 
from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen), the Senator from South Carolina (Mr. 
Graham) and the Senator from Arizona (Mr. McCain) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 232 proposed to S. 722, a bill to impose 
sanctions with respect to Iran in relation to Iran's ballistic missile 
program, support for acts of international terrorism, and violations of 
human rights, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



