

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6305-H6306]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO SARAH MEECE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Kentucky (Mr. Rogers) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to 
my long-time adviser and expert caseworker, Sarah Meece, upon her much-
deserved retirement after dedicating more than 40 years of service by 
my side. When I reflect upon Sarah's career, I stand in awe of her 
loyalty, her unwavering patience, her persistent advocacy, and undying 
compassion for those in need.
  As Congressman, I have the duty and the privilege of assisting the 
people of southern and eastern Kentucky as they grapple with Federal 
agencies. At the heart of those cases has stood Sarah Meece providing 
expert advice and staunch support for individuals in our region who 
need help with Social Security, disability, and retirement claims, 
among many other issues. In fact, over the last 36 years, Sarah has 
worked on approximately 150,000 cases, representing an unmatched record 
of assistance for more than 4,000 individuals each year.
  Sarah has gained so much notoriety in her field that staff from other 
congressional offices, and officials even from the administration, 
contact her for guidance in case work. And in this line of work, there 
are very few, if any, medals or certificates of honor to honor those 
worthy of recognition like Sarah; nonetheless, her drive and 
consistency has never failed.
  Day in and day out, Sarah has answered countless phone calls, set up 
personal meetings, listened to some of the most heartbreaking stories 
from families who were denied benefits on multiple occasions, those in 
desperate need of recouping benefits, others who lost hope in a 
mountain of Federal paperwork. Sarah's reward has been the simple words 
of appreciation from the thousands upon thousands of individuals who 
she has helped over the years. In my eyes, she deserves so much more.
  While I wish Sarah the best in her years of retirement, the absence 
of her daily presence in the office will be insurmountable. When I was 
elected Commonwealth's Attorney for Pulaski and Rockcastle Counties in 
1969, Sarah Meece was there. When I was the Republican nominee for 
Lieutenant Governor in 1979, Sarah Meece was there. When I was elected 
to Congress in 1980, Sarah Meece was there. In fact, she has been with 
me every day since, even volunteering her personal time for campaign 
work along the way, ensuring we both could continue serving the public 
for another 2 years.
  During her tenure, Sarah welcomed U.S. Presidents and Vice Presidents 
to our region, befriended eight Kentucky Governors and their staffs, 
and assisted hundreds of local leaders across southern and eastern 
Kentucky as they navigated through Federal issues.
  However, it is the people living in the hills and hollers of 
Kentucky's Fifth Congressional District who have driven her passion-
filled public service. With every call and every personal visit, Sarah 
offered an encouraging word of hope to our constituents. Very few 
people can find the silver lining in every cloud like Sarah does, or 
bring a smile and a laugh to a broken heart. Her comical candor and 
illustrative storytelling have been a bright spot in everyone's day.
  I am forever grateful to have such a great friend and loyal adviser 
over these last 4 decades. Sarah's life's work has given countless 
families hope in their darkest hour and comforted them through lengthy 
and complex Federal issues.
  Simply put, Sarah is irreplaceable, both her institutional knowledge 
of Federal casework and her kind, enduring spirit.
  Mr. Speaker, if every congressional office and Federal agency had a 
Sarah Meece, our Nation would operate much

[[Page H6306]]

better. She has been the jewel of my congressional operations and the 
truest friend to the people of southern and eastern Kentucky.
  My wife, Cynthia, and I wish Sarah and her husband, Bud, many joyful 
and restful years of retirement with their children and grandchildren.

                          ____________________



