

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4511]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       NATIONAL FOSTER CARE MONTH

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Nebraska (Mr. Bacon) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. BACON. Mr. Speaker, I rise to celebrate May as National Foster 
Care Month. I also welcome those currently in and alumni of our foster 
care system, along with our supporters, who are visiting Capitol Hill 
today.
  Foster Care Month is a very small way to acknowledge the youth that 
are a part of the system, along with all of those who make an enormous 
difference in their lives. This month is about improving the foster 
care system and providing support to the individuals who selflessly 
make this system work.
  The success of our country depends upon the well-being of our youth 
today. We know, through much social research, that family stability is 
directly linked to less behavioral and academic problems. We have the 
duty as a nation to empower all children so they can have the same 
sense of promise and possibility as any other, regardless of their 
circumstances.
  National Foster Care Month is a time to celebrate the selfless men 
and women who embrace children in the foster care system and recommit 
to helping more youth find permanent families so they can, too, 
experience stability and the freedom to fulfill their limitless 
potential.
  Mr. Speaker, the foster care system has always and will always be 
near and dear to my heart. My wife, Angie, and I adopted two children, 
Austin and Jessica, then 8 and 9, respectively, through the foster care 
system.
  The idea that children belong in stable families is not only one of 
the most bipartisan issues I have the privilege of working on, but it 
is one that is important to me and dear to me. Nothing is more 
important to a child's upbringing and long-term success than a loving 
and stable home.
  The bedrock of the American story is a strong and supportive family. 
We must do everything we can to care for all of our youth so they can 
be free from harm and set up for success so that they might pen our 
country's unwritten future.
  Today I have the honor of being shadowed for the day by Kimberly 
Grosse of Omaha, Nebraska. Kim was in foster care for 8 years. Starting 
off in a group home, she was later placed at Boys Town, where she 
graduated from high school.
  Kim currently works as a communications specialist, dispatching 
medical EMS helicopters. She also volunteers her time as a court-
appointed special advocate for kids currently in the foster care 
system. Kim, like so many other alumni of the system, pays it forward 
with her dedicated support. She is a shining example of determination 
and perseverance in all aspects of her life. I know that this young 
lady has an extremely bright future ahead.
  I also appreciate my colleagues from both sides of the aisle--
Representatives Karen Bass, Diane Black, Trent Franks, Jim Langevin, 
Brenda Lawrence, and Tom Marino--for their leadership in the Foster 
Care Caucus. I am grateful to fellow Members who help advocate for this 
important cause.
  Now, let's continue to embrace the spirit that every child matters 
and continue to work toward providing all of our sons and daughters an 
equal opportunity to lead productive and fulfilling lives, not limited 
to anything but their hopes, dreams, imagination, and perseverance. I 
salute all of those who are supporters of the foster care system.
  I also just want to add, I know, firsthand, when you see your foster 
children grow to be healthy, successful, independent, and loving adults 
that you gain a tremendous sense of satisfaction and thankfulness.

                          ____________________



