

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6330-H6331]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1430
           AFRICAN AMERICAN CIVIL RIGHTS NETWORK ACT OF 2017

  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 1927) to amend title 54, United States Code, to establish 
within the National Park Service the African American Civil Rights 
Network, and for other purposes, as amended.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 1927

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``African American Civil 
     Rights Network Act of 2017''.

     SEC. 2. PURPOSES.

       The purposes of this Act are--
       (1) to recognize--
       (A) the importance of the African American civil rights 
     movement; and
       (B) the sacrifices made by the people who fought against 
     discrimination and segregation; and
       (2) to authorize the National Park Service to coordinate 
     and facilitate Federal and non-Federal activities to 
     commemorate, honor, and interpret--
       (A) the history of the African American civil rights 
     movement;
       (B) the significance of the civil rights movement as a 
     crucial element in the evolution of the Civil Rights Act of 
     1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000a et seq.); and
       (C) the relevance of the African American civil rights 
     movement in fostering the spirit of social justice and 
     national reconciliation.

     SEC. 3. U.S. CIVIL RIGHTS NETWORK PROGRAM.

       (a) In General.--Subdivision 1 of Division B of subtitle 
     III of title 54, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
     after chapter 3083 the following:

               ``CHAPTER 3084--U.S. CIVIL RIGHTS NETWORK

``Sec.
``308401. Definition of network.
``308402. U.S. Civil Rights Network.
``308403. Cooperative agreements and memoranda of understanding.
``308404. Sunset.

     ``Sec. 308401. Definition of network

       ``In this chapter, the term `Network' means the African 
     American Civil Rights Network established under section 
     308402(a).

     ``Sec. 308402. U.S. Civil Rights Network

       ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall establish, within 
     the Service, a program to be known as the `U.S. Civil Rights 
     Network'.
       ``(b) Duties of Secretary.--In carrying out the Network, 
     the Secretary shall--
       ``(1) review studies and reports to complement and not 
     duplicate studies of the historical importance of the African 
     American civil rights movement that may be underway or 
     completed, such as the Civil Rights Framework Study;
       ``(2) produce and disseminate appropriate educational 
     materials relating to the African American civil rights 
     movement, such as handbooks, maps, interpretive guides, or 
     electronic information;
       ``(3) enter into appropriate cooperative agreements and 
     memoranda of understanding to provide technical assistance 
     under subsection (c); and
       ``(4)(A) create and adopt an official, uniform symbol or 
     device for the Network; and
       ``(B) issue regulations for the use of the symbol or device 
     adopted under subparagraph (A).
       ``(c) Elements.--The Network shall encompass the following 
     elements:
       ``(1) All units and programs of the Service that are 
     determined by the Secretary to relate to the African American 
     civil rights movement during the period from 1939 through 
     1968.
       ``(2) With the consent of the property owner, other 
     Federal, State, local, and privately owned properties that--
       ``(A) relate to the African American civil rights movement;
       ``(B) have a verifiable connection to the African American 
     civil rights movement; and
       ``(C) are included in, or determined by the Secretary to be 
     eligible for inclusion in, the National Register of Historic 
     Places.
       ``(3) Other governmental and nongovernmental facilities and 
     programs of an educational, research, or interpretive nature 
     that are directly related to the African American civil 
     rights movement.

     ``Sec. 308403. Cooperative agreements and memoranda of 
       understanding

       ``To achieve the purposes of this chapter and to ensure 
     effective coordination of the Federal and non-Federal 
     elements of the Network described in section 308402(c) with 
     System units and programs of the Service, the Secretary may 
     enter into cooperative agreements and memoranda of 
     understanding with, and provide technical assistance to the 
     heads of other Federal agencies, States, units of local 
     government, regional governmental bodies, and private 
     entities.

     ``Sec. 308404. Sunset

       ``This program shall expire on the date that is 7 years 
     after the date of enactment of this chapter.''.
       (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of chapters for title 
     54, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the 
     item relating to chapter 3083 the following:

``3084 U.S. Civil Rights Network..........................308401''.....

     SEC. 4. NO ADDITIONAL FUNDS AUTHORIZED.

       No additional funds are authorized to carry out the 
     requirements of this Act and the amendments made by this Act. 
     Such requirements shall be carried out using amounts 
     otherwise authorized.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
California (Mr. McClintock) and the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Clay) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.


                             General Leave

  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and to 
include extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from California?

[[Page H6331]]

  There was no objection.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may 
consume.
  Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1927, the African American Civil Rights Network 
Act, introduced by our distinguished committee colleague, Congressman 
Lacy Clay from Missouri, directs the National Park Service to identify 
and create a national network of historic sites, research facilities, 
and educational programs connected to the modern African-American civil 
rights movement. The network will be comprised of existing units and 
programs of the National Park Service related to the African-American 
civil rights movement as well as the properties and programs of other 
Federal, State, local, and private entities that join the network.
  Establishing this network of historic sites connected to the African-
American civil rights movement will help preserve the legacy and the 
struggle of the many courageous individuals who risked their lives to 
secure racial equality and to put the full measure of the Declaration 
of Independence and its sacred principles into action.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of this measure, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. CLAY. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the African American Civil 
Rights Network Act of 2017, updated and bipartisan legislation that I 
was proud to introduce along with my distinguished colleague from 
Missouri's Eighth Congressional District, Congressman Jason Smith. I 
appreciate his leadership and true friendship as well.
  Our legislation, which has already earned 72 cosponsors, would 
authorize the National Park Service to establish a program to preserve 
and protect the memory of the people and places that were significant 
in the struggle to securing equal rights for African Americans during 
the 20th century's civil rights era between 1939 and 1968.
  The purpose of this legislation is to recognize, protect, and share 
the remarkable American story of the modern struggle for civil rights, 
a unique national experience that touches every American regardless of 
their age, region, or heritage, and yet this very American story is 
often left untold, without the level of honesty and accuracy that it 
surely deserves.
  In fact, the generation now coming of age has only scant knowledge of 
the history of the civil rights struggle. Young Americans find it 
difficult to believe that racial segregation was once considered normal 
and necessary in the United States.
  I truly believe that the healing potential for this legislation is 
essential to bringing our Nation together. The historic network that 
H.R. 1927 would create would offer tremendous educational opportunities 
by recognizing those brave souls from all walks of life who fought to 
make the promises enshrined in our Constitution finally ring true for 
every American regardless of the color of their skin.
  Across this great country, precious historic waypoints along the 
routes of that still largely untold story are at risk of being lost 
forever.
  My hope is that the historic civil rights trails and the programs 
that will grow from this act will honestly tell the truth, the full and 
sometimes painful story of the struggle for civil rights, not just for 
African Americans, but to foster healing, tolerance, and understanding 
among all Americans.
  This bill is similar to legislation that created the National 
Underground Railroad Network to Freedom Act of 1998, which is currently 
administered by the National Park Service. It directs the Secretary of 
the Interior to identify and create a national network of historic 
sites, stories, research facilities, and educational programs connected 
to the modern African-American civil rights movement.
  This legislation has also earned the strong support of the National 
Urban League, the National Trust for Historic Preservation, the 
National Parks Conservation Association, and the NAACP.
  Mr. Speaker, let me also commend the gentleman from California for 
his support of this legislation that came out of his subcommittee. I 
appreciate his help and strong support of it.
  I look at this opportunity as something that we should all want to 
embrace the transformative power of the real American story. We should 
seize it. This bill advances that worthy goal for our Nation, and I 
urge my colleagues to support this important act.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as she may consume to 
the gentlewoman from Utah (Mrs. Love).
  Mrs. LOVE. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman McClintock for yielding.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1927. Nearly a decade ago, the 
National Park Service, with the help of the Organization of American 
Historians, completed a study to help identify significant sites 
related to the modern civil rights movement. Through this effort, the 
National Park Service found that many sites with a connection to the 
movement had not been formally recognized and that many were in severe 
disrepair and at risk of being permanently lost.
  This legislation establishes a network of sites to include all 
National Park Service's units and programs, as well as other Federal, 
State, local, and privately owned properties for the National Register 
of Historic Places.
  A similar network was created previously by Congress to identify and 
commemorate the sites and stories related to the underground railroad. 
This bill would allow the National Park Service to build partnerships 
with other public and private entities to help preserve the remaining 
sites.
  As part of my religious beliefs, I believe that knowing who you are, 
where you come from, is a foundation of knowing where you are and where 
you will be going.
  History teaches us important lessons that we need to learn and grow 
from. Because of great leaders like Martin Luther King, President 
Abraham Lincoln, Rosa Parks, and many unsung heroes, I am here today as 
a Member of Congress representing the great State of Utah. We can be 
proud of who we are and what we believe in, that all men are created 
equal in the eyes of God.
  It is imperative that here in the United States, that we don't make 
people feel like victims, and that all Americans are not afraid of, but 
empowered by, their history and our future.
  Mr. Speaker, I commend Representative Clay for his sponsorship of 
this bill, and I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1927.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time to 
close.
  Mr. CLAY. Mr. Speaker, in closing, I would like to commend my 
colleague, Mrs. Love from Utah. And it goes to show you that we can 
reach across the aisle and find common ground. I appreciate her support 
of this legislation, as well as I urge my colleagues to vote in favor 
of the bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I would like to reciprocate the kind 
words of the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Clay). It has been a pleasure 
working with him on this bill.
  Shakespeare put it best:

       This story shall a good man teach his son.

  This bill tells that story of how the full measure of our Nation's 
founding principles came to fruition.
  I would ask for Members' support and adoption of this measure, and I 
yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from California (Mr. McClintock) that the House suspend the 
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1927, as amended.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



