

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5432-H5433]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. ELLISON (for himself, Ms. Norton, Ms. Maxine 
             Waters of California, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Jayapal, 
             Mr. Blumenauer, and Ms. Shea-Porter):
       H.R. 3175. A bill to establish privacy protections for 
     customers of broadband Internet access service and other 
     telecommunications services; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. MacARTHUR (for himself, Miss Rice of New York, 
             Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Graves of Louisiana, Mr. Delaney, 
             Mr. Jones, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. 
             Polis, Mr. Meeks, and Mr. Faso):
       H.R. 3176. A bill to prohibit the Federal Emergency 
     Management Agency from recouping certain assistance, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. ISSA:
       H.R. 3177. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     extend the requirement to provide nursing home care to 
     certain veterans with service-connected disabilities; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BRADY of Texas (for himself, Mr. Neal, Mr. 
             Walden, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Tiberi, Mr. Levin, Mr. 
             Burgess, and Mr. Gene Green of Texas):
       H.R. 3178. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to improve the delivery of home infusion therapy 
     and dialysis and the application of the Stark rule under the 
     Medicare program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH:
       H.R. 3179. A bill to require the appropriate Federal 
     banking agencies, when issuing certain prudential regulations 
     that are substantively more stringent than a corresponding 
     international prudential standard to publish the rationale 
     for doing so and a cost-benefit analysis of the difference, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. NUNES (for himself and Mr. Schiff):
       H.R. 3180. A bill to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
     year 2018 for intelligence and intelligence-related 
     activities of the United States Government, the Community 
     Management Account, and the Central Intelligence Agency 
     Retirement and Disability System, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Intelligence (Permanent Select).
           By Mrs. BLACK (for herself, Mr. Thompson of California, 
             Mr. Collins of New York, and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 3181. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to encourage Medicare beneficiaries to 
     voluntarily adopt advance directives guiding the medical care 
     they receive; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. DeLAURO (for herself, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. 
             Conyers, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Courtney, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Khanna, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. 
             Kildee, Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. 
             Cummings, Ms. Wilson of Florida, and Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz):
       H.R. 3182. A bill to amend section 317A of the Public 
     Health Service Act to reauthorize a program for screenings 
     and referrals regarding lead poisoning, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. GARRETT (for himself, Mr. Griffith, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Mr. Wittman, Mr. McEachin, Mr. Brat, Mr. 
             Taylor, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Beyer, and Mr. Goodlatte):
       H.R. 3183. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 13683 James Madison Highway 
     in Palmyra, Virginia, as the ``U.S. Navy Seaman Dakota Kyle 
     Rigsby Post Office''; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. GARRETT (for himself, Mr. McEachin, Mr. Brat, 
             Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. Taylor, Mrs. Comstock, and 
             Mr. Beyer):
       H.R. 3184. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 180 McCormick Road in 
     Charlottesville, Virginia, as the ``Captain Humayun Khan Post 
     Office''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. JOYCE of Ohio:
       H.R. 3185. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to evaluate the organizational structure of the 
     Veterans Health Administration, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. TSONGAS (for herself, Mr. Tipton, Ms. DeGette, 
             and Ms. Stefanik):
       H.R. 3186. A bill to establish an Every Kid Outdoors 
     program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, and in addition to the Committees on Agriculture, 
     and Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. YOHO (for himself, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Suozzi, 
             and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 3187. A bill to advance United States interests in the 
     freedom of navigation by enhancing congressional oversight of 
     freedom of navigation operations conducted by the Armed 
     Forces of the United States; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services.
           By Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER:
       H. Res. 432. A resolution amending the Rules of the House 
     of Representatives to prohibit the consideration of any 
     general appropriations bill until a concurrent resolution on 
     the budget has been adopted or the appropriate budgetary 
     suballocations are made available; to the Committee on Rules.
           By Mr. HASTINGS:
       H. Res. 433. A resolution disapproving of the United 
     Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization 
     (UNESCO) World Heritage Committee Inscription of Hebron as a 
     Palestinian World Heritage Site in Danger; to the Committee 
     on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. JODY B. HICE of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Franks 
             of Arizona, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Grothman, Mr. Roskam, 
             Mr. King of Iowa, and Mr. Hultgren):
       H. Res. 434. A resolution condemning violence against 
     religious minorities in the People's Republic of China and 
     any actions that limit the free expression and practice of 
     faith by these minorities; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. KIND (for himself, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Meehan, Mrs. 
             Bustos, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Jordan, Mr. Takano, Ms. 
             Norton, Ms. Bordallo, and Mr. Langevin):
       H. Res. 435. A resolution recognizing the millions of youth 
     in this nation benefitting from youth sports and the parents, 
     volunteers, and local and national organizations that make 
     youth sports in this country possible, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. 
             Reichert, and Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of Florida):
       H. Res. 436. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of July 29, 2017, as

[[Page H5433]]

     ``Paralympic and Adaptive Sport Day''; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Committees on Armed 
     Services, and Veterans' Affairs, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.

                          ____________________



