

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 99 (Monday, June 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 99 (Monday, June 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3398-S3399]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS

                                 ______
                                 

   SENATE RESOLUTION 190--HONORING THE MEMORY OF THE VICTIMS OF THE 
      TERRORIST ATTACK ON THE PULSE ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB ONE YEAR AGO

  Mr. NELSON (for himself, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. 
Blumenthal, Mr. Coons, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Markey, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Carper, 
Mr. Whitehouse, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Warren, Mr. King, Mr. Casey, Mr. 
Franken, Mr. Booker, Ms. Cortez Masto, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Schatz, Mr. 
Merkley, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. McCain, Mr. Enzi, Mr. Rounds, Mr. Inhofe, 
Ms. Murkowski, and Mr. Sullivan) submitted the following resolution; 
which was considered and agreed to:

                              S. Res. 190

       Whereas, in the early hours of Sunday, June 12, 2016, a 29-
     year-old man from Ft. Pierce, Florida, killed 49 and wounded 
     53 innocent people in a horrific terrorist attack on Pulse 
     Orlando, a lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender nightclub, 
     during Latin night;
       Whereas the gunman, who was investigated in 2013-2014 by 
     the Federal Bureau of Investigation (in this preamble 
     referred to as the ``FBI'') for possible connections to 
     terrorism, pledged his allegiance to the leader of the 
     Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (in this preamble 
     referred to as ``ISIL'');
       Whereas then-President Obama called the attack an act of 
     both terror and hate as well as an attack on all of the 
     people of the United States and the fundamental values of 
     equality and dignity;
       Whereas the attack is the deadliest mass shooting in the 
     modern history of the United States and the worst terrorist 
     attack on United States soil since September 11, 2001;
       Whereas the law enforcement professionals of the city of 
     Orlando and Orange County, Florida, the Florida Department of 
     Law Enforcement, the FBI, and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, 
     Firearms, and Explosives, and other emergency and health care 
     professionals responded to the attack bravely and admirably 
     and in a coordinated manner, saving many lives;
       Whereas following the attack hundreds of people stood in 
     long lines to donate blood for those injured in the attack, 
     and the people of Orlando, the State of Florida, and the 
     United States expressed overwhelming support for the victims, 
     their families, and their loved ones regardless of race, 
     ethnicity, religion, sex, or sexual orientation;

[[Page S3399]]

       Whereas local organizations and caregivers came together 
     with the Federal, State, and local government to support the 
     victims and help the community heal;
       Whereas the community of Orlando and communities across the 
     State of Florida and the United States, in the spirit of 
     unity and respect, continue to support the victims, their 
     families, their loved ones, and all those affected by the 
     attack, as well as the brave men and women of Federal, State, 
     and local law enforcement and other emergency and health care 
     professionals for their dedicated service to their 
     communities;
       Whereas Monday, June 12, 2017, marks one year since the 
     attack; and
       Whereas the threat of terrorist attacks against the United 
     States and its allies persists, including the threat posed by 
     homegrown terrorists inspired by foreign terrorist 
     organizations like ISIL: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) commemorates the victims killed in the horrific 
     terrorist attack on the Pulse Orlando nightclub on June 12, 
     2016, and offers heartfelt condolences and deepest sympathies 
     for their families, loved ones, and friends;
       (2) honors the survivors of the attack and pledges 
     continued support for their recovery;
       (3) recognizes the unity, compassion, and resilience of the 
     Orlando community after the attack;
       (4) applauds the dedication and bravery of Federal, State, 
     and local law enforcement and counterterrorism officials for 
     their efforts to respond to the attack, prevent future 
     attacks, and secure communities;
       (5) stands together with all people of the United States, 
     regardless of race, ethnicity, religion, sex, or sexual 
     orientation, in the face of terror and hate; and
       (6) reaffirms the commitment of the United States and its 
     allies to defeat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant and 
     other terrorist groups at home and abroad and to address the 
     threat posed by homegrown terrorism.

                          ____________________



