

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H6307]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        AN IMPRESSIVE MILESTONE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Minnesota (Mr. Emmer) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in celebration of the Elk River 
Municipal Utilities Commission's recent 70th anniversary.
  The Elk River Municipal Utilities Commission was created or 
established in 1915, when a private citizen started Elk River Power and 
Light. The business was eventually purchased by the village of Elk 
River and operated by the city council.
  Later on, when their responsibilities expanded to include water, the 
council created the Elk River Municipal Utilities Commission.
  Throughout the years, this organization has not only seen their 
responsibilities expand, but their jurisdiction expand as well. In 
fact, today, the commission covers Otsego, Dayton, and Big Lake, in 
addition to the Elk River area, providing services to more than 11,000 
Minnesota customers.
  Thank you to everyone that makes the Elk River Municipal Utilities 
work, and congratulations on 70 years of great service to our 
communities.


                       An Incredible Anniversary

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the 160th 
anniversary of the Anoka-Champlin Fire Department. Since 1857, this 
fire department has been dedicated to protecting lives and property in 
our communities.
  To give a little perspective on the history of the organization, the 
Anoka-Champlin Fire Department has been serving the great State of 
Minnesota since it was still a territory and before the Civil War.

                              {time}  1100

  Due to their hard work and often lifesaving efforts, Anoka and 
Champlin have been allowed to grow into thriving communities.
  I want to thank the cities of Anoka and Champlin for continuing to 
support this important organization. Thank you for your service and 
commitment to our communities and their citizens.
  Congratulations on your anniversary and upcoming celebration. It is 
well deserved.


                  Two Lives Honored for Saving Another

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor two men from my State 
whose quick thinking saved the life of another earlier this year.
  Dr. Bob Schwegler and Dr. Tom Cress were both golfing with Steve 
Blattner at the Albany Golf Course when Steve began to suffer a cardiac 
event. Instead of panicking, both doctors successfully performed 
lifesaving measures on Steve, and with the assistance of the Albany 
Fire Department, their efforts were successful in saving Steve's life.
  As a result of their heroic actions, Dr. Schwegler and Dr. Cress were 
recently presented with lifesaving awards by Stearns County Sheriff Don 
Gudmundson and Lieutenant Vic Weiss at the Stearns County Board of 
Commissioners meeting.
  Thank you, Bob Schwegler, Tom Cress, and the Albany Fire Department, 
for your heroic actions. We appreciate your service.


                            A Perfect Score

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate a student in my 
district for an incredible academic achievement. Tyler Wilson of 
Andover, Minnesota, received a perfect score on his ACT this year, 
making him, no doubt, a valuable candidate for most colleges and 
universities across this country.
  To give an idea on how extraordinary that achievement is, only 0.1 
percent of all individuals who take the ACT receive a perfect score.
  Tyler is going into his senior year at Andover High School. He hopes 
to attend either Drake University or the University of Minnesota in the 
Twin Cities, with the goal of pursuing a career as a pharmacist.
  We wish Tyler the best of luck on his senior year in high school, and 
we are excited to see what this scholar will accomplish in the future.
  Congratulations again, Tyler. We are all so proud of you.

                          ____________________



