

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 96 (Tuesday, June 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4626-H4627]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1215
                 HONORING SPECIALIST KERRY M.G. DANYLUK

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Farenthold) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FARENTHOLD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to tell you about the new 
Army Specialist Kerry M.G. Danyluk Memorial in Yoakum, Texas, which was 
unveiled last week on Memorial Day.

[[Page H4627]]

  This new memorial, planned and funded by the Yoakum Rotary Club, 
honors Yoakum High School and Victoria College graduate Kerry Danyluk, 
who made the ultimate sacrifice for our Nation on April 15, 2014.
  Assigned to the 10th Mountain Division based at Fort Drum, New York, 
27-year-old Army Specialist Danyluk was serving his second tour of duty 
in Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring Freedom. While 
conducting operations in the Logar province, enemy forces attacked 
Specialist Danyluk's unit with small arms fire, critically wounding 
him. Despite an evacuation to Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in 
Germany, Specialist Danyluk succumbed to his injuries.
  Danyluk's awards include the Bronze Star, the Purple Heart, the Army 
Commendation Medal, the Army Achievement Medal, the Army Good Conduct 
Medal, and more.
  Thanks to the generous actions of the Yoakum Rotary Club, Specialist 
Danyluk's memory will live on.
  A special thank-you is also due all involved in helping plan and 
implement the memorial. I am honored to represent communities like 
Yoakum and many others that are so grateful to those who serve our 
Nation.


       coach james mcminn named all-south texas coach of the year

  Mr. FARENTHOLD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize one of my 
constituents, James McMinn, who serves as the assistant athletic 
director and head girls basketball coach at Flour Bluff High School and 
was recently named the All-South Texas Coach of the Year.
  Born and raised in Corpus Christi, Texas, Coach McMinn graduated from 
W. B. Ray High School in 1981 and continued his education at Del Mar 
College and Corpus Christi State University, now Texas A&M University 
Corpus Christi.
  Coach McMinn started his career at my alma mater, Incarnate Word 
Academy in Corpus Christi, and he coached the Lady Angels to two 
separate State appearances.
  He began working in Flour Bluff in the fall of 1993 and recently 
concluded his 27th year as head basketball coach. Over that 27-year 
career, he accumulated an impressive record. His teams have advanced to 
postseason play 19 of those 27 seasons. He has taken the Lady Hornets 
to the regional tournament five times and advanced to the State 
tournament final four in the 2016-2017 season.
  Congratulations, Coach McMinn, on your outstanding coaching 
achievements. I hope you have continued success at Flour Bluff and all 
of your future endeavors.


 texas delegates to congress of future medical leaders and congress of 
                 future science and technology leaders

  Mr. FARENTHOLD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize four 
outstanding high school students from the 27th District of Texas who 
will be delegates to the Congress of the Future Medical Leaders and 
Congress of the Future Science and Technology Leaders later this month.
  Britney Goodwin, a junior at Rockport-Fulton High School, excels in 
science and technology and was nominated for the Congress of Future 
Science and Technology Leaders for her academic achievement, leadership 
potential, and passion for science and technology.
  Austin Thompson from Callallen High School, Nicole Morrison, a 
student at Incarnate Word Academy, and John Handleman from Corpus 
Christi will all be delegates at the Congress of Future Medical 
Leaders. These students were nominated by their teachers for their 
academic success and their desire to become future STEM leaders and 
medical professionals.
  Our country needs more doctors. Our country needs more science, 
technology, and mathematics students to continue the technological 
revolution and continued innovation that our country needs.
  Congratulations, Britney, Austin, Nicole, and John. America is proud 
of you all.

                          ____________________



