

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 80 (Tuesday, May 9, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 80 (Tuesday, May 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2846]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself and Mrs. McCaskill):
       S. 1071. A bill to require the evaluation and consolidation 
     of duplicative green building programs within the Department 
     of Energy; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BURR (for himself, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Tester, and 
             Mr. Manchin):
       S. 1072. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the provision of services for homeless veterans, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. RUBIO:
       S. 1073. A bill to authorize Escambia County, Florida, to 
     convey certain property that was formerly part of Santa Rosa 
     Island National Monument and that was conveyed to Escambia 
     County subject to restrictions on use and reconveyance; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr. Bennet):
       S. 1074. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide uniform standards for the use of electronic 
     signatures for third-party disclosure authorizations; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. CAPITO (for herself, Mr. Manchin, and Mr. 
             Portman):
       S. 1075. A bill to direct the Secretary of Energy and the 
     Secretary of Commerce to conduct a study of the feasibility 
     of establishing an ethane storage and distribution hub in the 
     United States; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. SANDERS (for himself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Brown, 
             Mr. Franken, Ms. Klobuchar, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. 
             Peters, Mr. Reed, Ms. Stabenow, and Mr. Whitehouse):
       S. 1076. A bill to amend the Employee Retirement Income 
     Security Act of 1974 and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
     modify certain provisions relating to multiemployer pensions, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. MANCHIN:
       S. 1077. A bill to direct the Secretary of Health and Human 
     Services to amend the mission statement of the Food and Drug 
     Administration; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
     and Pensions.
           By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Mrs. Capito, Mrs. 
             McCaskill, and Mr. King):
       S. 1078. A bill to establish procedures regarding the 
     approval of opioid drugs by the Food and Drug Administration; 
     to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. MANCHIN:
       S. 1079. A bill to require the Food and Drug Administration 
     to revoke the approval of one opioid pain medication for each 
     new opioid pain medication approved; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mrs. McCASKILL (for herself, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Durbin, 
             and Ms. Duckworth):
       S. 1080. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to protect employees in the building and construction 
     industry who are participants in multiemployer plans, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.

                          ____________________



