

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 100 (Tuesday, June 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 100 (Tuesday, June 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4912-H4913]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. WELCH (for himself and Mr. Harper):
       H.R. 2889. A bill to amend title III of the Public Health 
     Service Act to limit the orphan drug exclusion under the drug 
     discount program under section 340B of such title; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. HULTGREN (for himself and Ms. Moore):
       H.R. 2890. A bill to amend the Federal Home Loan Bank Act 
     to permit captive insurance companies that were members of a 
     Federal Home Loan Bank prior to September 12, 2014, to 
     continue to be eligible to be members of such a Bank, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. BISHOP of Georgia (for himself and Mr. Dent):
       H.R. 2891. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     clarify the eligibility of children of Vietnam veterans born 
     with spina bifida for benefits of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. ENGEL (for himself and Ms. Ros-Lehtinen):
       H.R. 2892. A bill to amend chapter 329 of title 49, United 
     States Code, to ensure that new vehicles enable fuel 
     competition so as to reduce the strategic importance of oil 
     to the United States; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH (for himself and Mr. Goodlatte):
       H.R. 2893. A bill to amend the Natural Gas Act to bolster 
     fairness and transparency in consideration of interstate 
     natural gas pipelines, to provide for greater public input 
     opportunities, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. KEATING:
       H.R. 2894. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     provide for education and outreach with respect to the 
     prevention and treatment of tick-borne illnesses; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York (for himself, 
             Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Takano, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Swalwell 
             of California, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. Norton, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Shea-Porter, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Mr. Keating, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, 
             Ms. Titus, Mr. Peters, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Kildee, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. 
             Schiff, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Al Green of 
             Texas, and Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York):
       H.R. 2895. A bill to provide a requirement to improve data 
     collection efforts; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. NOLAN:
       H.R. 2896. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to provide a midyear cost-of-living increase to account 
     for an insufficient increase for 2017, to apply the Consumer 
     Price Index for the Elderly (CPI-E) to future Social Security 
     COLAs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, and in addition to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 2897. A bill to authorize the Mayor of the District of 
     Columbia and the Director of the National Park Service to 
     enter into cooperative management agreements for the 
     operation, maintenance, and management of units of the 
     National Park System in the District of Columbia, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. O'HALLERAN (for himself and Mr. Westerman):
       H.R. 2898. A bill to amend the Secure Rural Schools and 
     Community Self-Determination Act of 2000 to modify the 
     appointment and

[[Page H4913]]

     composition of resource advisory committees; to the Committee 
     on Agriculture, and in addition to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SENSENBRENNER (for himself, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. 
             Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Conyers, Ms. Jackson 
             Lee, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. Collins of 
             Georgia, Mr. Walker, Mr. Marino, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mrs. Love, Mr. Taylor, 
             Mrs. Comstock, and Mr. Jeffries):
       H.R. 2899. A bill to reauthorize the Second Chance Act of 
     2007; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BUCK:
       H. Res. 381. A resolution electing Members to certain 
     standing committees of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. HECK (for himself, Mr. Kilmer, Ms. DelBene, Ms. 
             Jayapal, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, and Mr. Larsen of 
             Washington):
       H. Res. 383. A resolution to express support for 
     recognition of June 2017 as National Orca Protection Month; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.

                          ____________________



