

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 111 (Wednesday, June 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 111 (Wednesday, June 28, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5294-H5295]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself, 
             Mr. King of New York, Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California, Mr. Royce of California, and Ms. Moore):
       H.R. 3089. A bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to 
     ensure that persons who form corporations or limited 
     liability companies in the United States disclose the 
     beneficial owners of those corporations or limited liability 
     companies, in order to prevent wrongdoers from exploiting 
     United States corporations and limited liability companies 
     for criminal gain, to assist law enforcement in detecting, 
     preventing, and punishing terrorism, money laundering, and 
     other misconduct involving United States corporations and 
     limited liability companies, and

[[Page H5295]]

     for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. McHENRY (for himself and Mr. Arrington):
       H.R. 3090. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to prevent individuals receiving work authorizations 
     under certain deferred action programs from being eligible 
     for the earned income tax credit; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. POCAN (for himself and Mr. Conyers):
       H.R. 3091. A bill to amend the National Voter Registration 
     Act of 1993 to limit the authority of State election 
     officials to remove registrants from the official list of 
     eligible voters in elections for Federal office in the State 
     on the basis of interstate cross-checks, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on House Administration.
           By Mrs. HARTZLER (for herself, Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire, and Mrs. Walorski):
       H.R. 3092. A bill to amend part D of title IV of the Social 
     Security Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human 
     Services to modify the Federal Parent Locator Service to 
     improve search functions and include State responsible father 
     registry search functions, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CAPUANO (for himself, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Meeks, 
             Mr. Foster, and Mr. Gonzalez of Texas):
       H.R. 3093. A bill to amend the Volcker Rule to permit 
     certain investment advisers to share a similar name with a 
     private equity fund, subject to certain restrictions, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. CROWLEY:
       H.R. 3094. A bill to authorize a national grant program for 
     on-the-job training; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. MOULTON (for himself and Mr. Banks of Indiana):
       H.R. 3095. A bill to prohibit or suspend certain health 
     care providers from providing non-Department of Veterans 
     Affairs health care services to veterans, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. NOEM:
       H.R. 3096. A bill to implement a mandatory random drug 
     testing program for certain employees of the Indian Health 
     Service, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RICE of South Carolina (for himself, Mr. 
             Renacci, and Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 3097. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to prohibit credit for service for purposes of a Federal 
     annuity to employees of the Social Security Administration 
     for certain violations, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. SANCHEZ (for herself, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham 
             of New Mexico, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. 
             Conyers, Ms. Clarke of New York, and Mr. Larsen of 
             Washington):
       H.R. 3098. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for coverage of certified adult day 
     services under the Medicare program, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SANFORD:
       H.R. 3099. A bill to establish Fort Sumter and Fort 
     Moultrie National Park in the State of South Carolina, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. SINEMA (for herself, Mr. Budd, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. 
             Stivers, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Ross, Mr. Messer, 
             Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr. Sherman, Mr. 
             Delaney, and Mr. Gottheimer):
       H.R. 3100. A bill to require the President to develop a 
     national strategy for combating the financing of terrorism 
     and related forms of illicit finance, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mrs. TORRES:
       H.R. 3101. A bill to enhance cybersecurity information 
     sharing and coordination at ports in the United States, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. VEASEY (for himself, Mr. Takano, Mr. Gutierrez, 
             Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. Correa, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             Mr. Raskin, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. Vela, Ms. 
             McCollum, and Mrs. Demings):
       H.R. 3102. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     improve the provision of naturalization assistance to members 
     of the uniformed services, including new recruits, who are 
     not citizens of the United States, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. VEASEY (for himself, Mr. Takano, Mr. Gutierrez, 
             Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. Correa, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             Mr. Raskin, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. Vela, Ms. 
             McCollum, and Mrs. Demings):
       H.R. 3103. A bill to direct the Secretary of Defense and 
     the Secretary of Homeland Security to jointly conduct a study 
     and submit a report on deported veterans; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on Armed 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself and Ms. 
             Pelosi):
       H. Con. Res. 67. Concurrent resolution urging the 
     Government of the People's Republic of China to 
     unconditionally release Liu Xiaobo, together with his wife 
     Liu Xia, to allow them to freely meet with friends, family, 
     and counsel and seek medical treatment wherever they desire; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. DUFFY (for himself, Mr. Sensenbrenner, Mr. 
             Gallagher, Mr. Grothman, and Mr. Kind):
       H. Res. 418. A resolution urging the Secretary of the 
     Interior to recognize the cultural significance of Rib 
     Mountain by adding it to the National Register of Historic 
     Places; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas (for himself, Mr. Sherman, Ms. 
             Blunt Rochester, Mr. Panetta, Ms. Speier, Mr. 
             Norcross, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney 
             of New York, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, 
             Mr. Correa, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Gallego, 
             Ms. Barragan, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. Takano, Mr. 
             Moulton, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Moore, Mrs. Davis of 
             California, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Welch, Mr. 
             Kihuen, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. 
             Polis, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Quigley, Ms. 
             Norton, Ms. Jayapal, and Mr. Pocan):
       H. Res. 419. A resolution encouraging the celebration of 
     the month of June as LGBTQ Pride Month; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. LEVIN:
       H. Res. 420. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of the week of July 9 through July 15, 2017, as 
     ``Sarcoma Awareness Week'' and July 15, 2017, as 
     ``Leiomyosarcoma Awareness Day''; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself and Ms. Bass):
       H. Res. 421. A resolution urging the Administration to 
     develop more effective and timely responses to famine in 
     Africa, especially efforts to end the conflicts in South 
     Sudan, Nigeria, and other countries that cause or exacerbate 
     famine; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.

                          ____________________



