

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 82 (Thursday, May 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 82 (Thursday, May 11, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2916-S2917]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 59

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 59, a bill to provide that 
silencers be treated the same as long guns.


                                 S. 109

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 109, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for coverage under the 
Medicare program of pharmacist services.


                                 S. 139

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 139, a bill to implement the use 
of Rapid DNA instruments to inform decisions about pretrial release or 
detention and their conditions, to solve and prevent violent crimes and 
other crimes, to exonerate the innocent, to prevent DNA analysis 
backlogs, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 340

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 340, a bill to 
clarify Congressional intent regarding the regulation of the use of 
pesticides in or near navigable waters, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 394

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 394, a bill to amend chapter 44 
of title 18, United States Code, to provide that a member of the Armed 
Forces and the spouse of that member shall have the same rights 
regarding the receipt of firearms at the location of any duty station 
of the member.


                                 S. 422

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Colorado (Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 422, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to clarify presumptions relating to 
the exposure of certain veterans who served in the vicinity of the 
Republic of Vietnam, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under Medicare 
for colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether 
therapeutic intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 534

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the names of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cruz) and the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 534, a bill to prevent the sexual abuse of minors and 
amateur athletes by requiring the prompt reporting of sexual abuse to 
law enforcement authorities, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. Flake) was added as a cosponsor of S. 540, a bill to limit the 
authority of States to tax certain income of employees for employment 
duties performed in other States.


                                 S. 583

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst) and the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 583, a bill to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and 
Safe Streets Act of 1968 to authorize COPS grantees to use grant funds 
to hire veterans as career law enforcement officers, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 654, a bill to 
revise section 48 of title 18, United States Code, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 682

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 682, a bill to amend 
title 31, United States Code, to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
to provide for the purchase of paper United States savings bonds with 
tax refunds.


                                 S. 782

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) and the Senator from California (Mrs. Feinstein) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 782, a bill to reauthorize the National Internet 
Crimes Against Children Task Force Program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 829

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 829, a bill to reauthorize 
the Assistance

[[Page S2917]]

to Firefighters Grants program, the Fire Prevention and Safety Grants 
program, and the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response 
grant program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 867

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the names of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cruz), the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) and the 
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Booker) were added as cosponsors of S. 
867, a bill to provide support for law enforcement agency efforts to 
protect the mental health and well-being of law enforcement officers, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 870

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
870, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to 
implement Medicare payment policies designed to improve management of 
chronic disease, streamline care coordination, and improve quality 
outcomes without adding to the deficit.


                                 S. 872

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) was added as a cosponsor of S. 872, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to make permanent the 
extension of the Medicare-dependent hospital (MDH) program and the 
increased payments under the Medicare low-volume hospital program.


                                 S. 926

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the names of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) and the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Isakson) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 926, a bill to authorize the Global War on Terror 
Memorial Foundation to establish the National Global War on Terrorism 
Memorial as a commemorative work in the District of Columbia, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 993

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. Toomey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 993, a bill to prohibit the 
Federal Communications Commission from reclassifying broadband Internet 
access service as a telecommunications service and from imposing 
certain regulations on providers of such service.


                                S. 1034

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1034, a bill to 
improve agricultural job opportunities, benefits, and security for 
aliens in the United States, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1055

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1055, a bill to 
restrict the exportation of certain defense articles to the Philippine 
National Police, to work with the Philippines to support civil society 
and a public health approach to substance abuse, to report on Chinese 
and other sources of narcotics to the Republic of the Philippines, and 
for other purposes.


                            S. CON. RES. 12

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 12, a concurrent 
resolution expressing the sense of Congress that those who served in 
the bays, harbors, and territorial seas of the Republic of Vietnam 
during the period beginning on January 9, 1962, and ending on May 7, 
1975, should be presumed to have served in the Republic of Vietnam for 
all purposes under the Agent Orange Act of 1991.


                              S. RES. 156

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) and the Senator from California (Mrs. 
Feinstein) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 156, a resolution 
recognizing National Foster Care Month as an opportunity to raise 
awareness about the challenges of children in the foster-care system, 
and encouraging Congress to implement policy to improve the lives of 
children in the foster-care system.


                              S. RES. 161

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the names of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen) 
were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 161, a resolution expressing the 
sense of the Senate that defense laboratories are on the cutting-edge 
of scientific and technological advancement, and supporting the 
designation of May 18, 2017, as ``Department of Defense Laboratory 
Day''.

                          ____________________



