

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 81 (Wednesday, May 10, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 81 (Wednesday, May 10, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2878-S2879]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       TRIBUTE TO DANIEL K. AKAKA

  Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, today I wish to honor our former 
colleague, Senator Daniel K. Akaka, for his lifetime of distinguished 
leadership, service, and contributions to our Nation's veteran and 
Native Hawaiian communities.
  Daniel Kahikina Akaka dedicated his life to serving the people of 
Hawaii. He served as a Member of the U.S. Senate for 22 years. Prior to 
that, he served Hawaii's 2nd Congressional District in the United 
States House of Representatives for 14 years.
  However, his story of leadership and service begins well before his 
tenure on Capitol Hill.
  On December 7, 1941, a young Senator Akaka witnessed Japanese fighter 
planes attacking Pearl Harbor from his dorm room at the Kamehameha 
Schools. The events of that morning were life-altering for him and many 
young men his age, and he joined the war effort.
  Following his service in World War II with the U.S. Army Corps of 
Engineers,

[[Page S2879]]

Senator Akaka earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Hawaii. 
He later attained a master's degree as well. As he has relayed in the 
past, had it not been for the benefits received under the G.I. Bill, 
Senator Akaka's future in public service would not have been more than 
a dream.
  A believer in the power of education, Senator Akaka made it a career. 
Before entering politics, he served as a teacher, principal, and 
educational administrator, making a difference in the lives of many 
students for over 15 years.
  As a veteran himself, Senator Akaka dedicated his service in Congress 
to helping servicemembers, veterans, and their families. His commitment 
to these issues led to his service as chairman of the Senate Committee 
on Veterans' Affairs from 2007 to 2011. As chairman, he worked to 
expand VA services. He also authored and passed the Post-9/11 G.I. 
Bill, which is making a difference to new generations of veterans as 
the original G.I. Bill did for his generation.
  Not only was Senator Akaka a champion for education and veterans, he 
was also a champion for Native Hawaiians. He is the first person of 
Native Hawaiian ancestry to serve in the U.S. Senate, and he grew up in 
an era where the Hawaiian language and culture were heavily looked down 
upon. To help change this perception, he committed to protecting the 
language, culture, and traditions of indigenous peoples.
  Senator Akaka advanced these priorities as chairman of the Senate 
Committee on Indian Affairs from 2011 to 2013. He also played a key 
role in ensuring the passage of legislation that enhanced Native 
Hawaiian education programs and authored a joint resolution that 
acknowledged the U.S. Government's role in the overthrow of the Kingdom 
of Hawaii in 1893, while recognizing the special trust relationship 
held with the Native Hawaiian community.
  He also fought tirelessly for self-determination for Native 
Hawaiians.
  During his time in Washington, DC, he served the people of Hawaii 
well and with distinction. Although he retired in 2012, Senator Akaka 
has continued down a path of leadership and service, speaking to 
students and mentoring some of Hawaii's up-and-coming leaders. We all 
appreciate his continued service.
  Mahalo nui loa, my dear friend, for being a true champion of aloha.

                          ____________________



