

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5409-H5412]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




       CLEAR CREEK NATIONAL RECREATION AREA AND CONSERVATION ACT

  Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 1913) to establish the Clear Creek National Recreation Area 
in San Benito and Fresno Counties, California, to designate the Joaquin 
Rocks Wilderness in such counties, and for other purposes.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 1913

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Clear Creek National 
     Recreation Area and Conservation Act''.

     SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

       In this Act:
       (1) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
     the Plan for the Recreation Area prepared under section 4(c).
       (2) Recreation area.--The term ``Recreation Area'' means 
     the Clear Creek National Recreation Area.
       (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
     of the Interior.
       (4) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of 
     California.
       (5) Off highway vehicle.--The term ``off highway vehicle'' 
     means any motorized vehicle designed for or capable of cross-
     country travel on or immediately over land, water, snow, or 
     other natural terrain and not intended for use on public 
     roads.

     SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF CLEAR CREEK NATIONAL RECREATION 
                   AREA.

       (a) In General.--To promote environmentally responsible off 
     highway vehicle recreation, the area generally depicted as 
     ``Proposed Clear Creek National Recreation Area'' on the map 
     titled ``Proposed Clear Creek National Recreation Area'' and 
     dated February 14, 2017, is established as the ``Clear Creek 
     National Recreation Area'', to be managed by the Secretary.
       (b) Other Purposes.--The Recreation Area shall also support 
     other public recreational uses, such as hunting, hiking, and 
     rock and gem collecting.
       (c) Map on File.--Copies of the map referred to in 
     subsection (a) shall be on file and available for public 
     inspection in--
       (1) the Office of the Director of the Bureau of Land 
     Management; and
       (2) the appropriate office of the Bureau of Land Management 
     in California.

     SEC. 4. MANAGEMENT.

       (a) In General.--The Secretary shall manage the Recreation 
     Area to further the purposes described in section 3(a), in 
     accordance with--
       (1) this Act;
       (2) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
     U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
       (3) any other applicable law.
       (b) Uses.--The Secretary shall--
       (1) prioritize environmentally responsible off highway 
     vehicle recreation and also facilitate hunting, hiking, gem 
     collecting, and the use of motorized vehicles, mountain 
     bikes, and horses in accordance with the management plan 
     described in subsection (c);
       (2) issue special recreation permits for motorized and non-
     motorized events; and
       (3) reopen the Clear Creek Management Area to the uses 
     described in this subsection as soon as practicable following 
     the enactment of this Act and in accordance with the 
     management guidelines outlined in this Act and other 
     applicable law.
       (c) Interim Management Plan.--The Secretary shall use the 
     2006 Clear Creek Management Area Resource Management Plan 
     Amendment and Route Designation Record of Decision as 
     modified by this Act or the Secretary to incorporate natural 
     resource protection information not available in 2006, as the 
     basis of an interim management plan to govern off highway 
     vehicle recreation within the Recreation Area pending the 
     completion of the long-term management plan required in 
     subsection (d).
       (d) Permanent Management Plan.--Not later than 2 years 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
     shall create a comprehensive management plan for the Clear 
     Creek Recreation Area that--
       (1) shall describe the appropriate uses and management of 
     the Recreation Area in accordance with this Act;
       (2) shall be prepared in consultation with--
       (A) appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies 
     (including San Benito, Monterey, and Fresno Counties);
       (B) adjacent land owners;
       (C) other stakeholders (including conservation and 
     recreational organizations); and
       (D) holders of any easements, rights-of-way, and other 
     valid rights in the Recreation Area;
       (3) shall include a hazards education program to inform 
     people entering the Recreation Area of the asbestos related 
     risks associated with various activities within the 
     Recreation Area, including off-highway vehicle recreation;
       (4) shall include a user fee program for motorized vehicle 
     use within the Recreational Area and guidelines for the use 
     of the funds collected for the management and improvement of 
     the Recreation Area;
       (5) shall designate as many previously used trails, roads, 
     and other areas for off highway vehicle recreation as 
     feasible in accordance with this in order to provide a 
     substantially similar recreational experience, except that 
     nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as precluding 
     the Secretary from closing any area, trail, or route from use 
     for the purposes of public safety or resource protection;
       (6) may incorporate any appropriate decisions, as 
     determined by the Secretary, in accordance with this Act, 
     that are contained in any management or activity plan for the 
     area completed before the date of the enactment of this Act;
       (7) may incorporate appropriate wildlife habitat management 
     plans or other plans prepared for the land within or adjacent 
     to the Recreation Area before the date of the enactment of 
     this Act, in accordance with this Act;
       (8) may use information developed under any studies of land 
     within or adjacent to the Recreation Area carried out before 
     the date of enactment of this Act; and
       (9) may include cooperative agreements with State or local 
     government agencies to manage all or a portion of the 
     recreational activities within the Recreation Area in 
     accordance with an approved management plan and the 
     requirements of this Act.
       (e) Acquisition of Property.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary may acquire land adjacent to 
     the National Recreation Area by purchase from willing 
     sellers, donation, or exchange.
       (2) Management.--Any land acquired under paragraph (1) 
     shall be managed in accordance with--
       (A) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
     U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
       (B) this Act; and
       (C) any other applicable law (including regulations).
       (3) Improved access.--The Secretary may acquire by purchase 
     from willing sellers, donation, exchange, or easement, land, 
     or interest in land to improve public safety in providing 
     access to the Recreation Area.
       (f) Private Property.--
       (1) Access to private property.--
       (A) In general.--The Secretary shall provide landowners 
     adequate access to inholdings within the Recreation Area.
       (B) Inholdings.--For access purposes, private land adjacent 
     to the Recreation Area to which there is no other practicable 
     access except through the Recreation Area shall be managed as 
     an inholding.
       (2) Use of private property.--Nothing in this Act affects 
     the ownership, management, or other rights relating to any 
     non-Federal land (including any interest in any non-Federal 
     land).
       (3) Buffer zones.--Nothing in this Act creates a protective 
     perimeter or buffer zone around the Recreation Area.
       (4) Valid rights.--Nothing in this Act affects any 
     easements, rights-of-way, and other valid rights in existence 
     on the date of the enactment of this Act.
       (g) Water Right Exclusion.--Nothing in this Act--
       (1) shall constitute or be construed to constitute either 
     an express or implied reservation by the United States of any 
     water or water rights with respect to the Recreation Area; or
       (2) shall affect any water rights existing on the date of 
     the enactment of this Act.

[[Page H5410]]

       (h) Hunting and Fishing.--Nothing in this Act--
       (1) limits hunting or fishing; or
       (2) affects the authority, jurisdiction, or responsibility 
     of the State to manage, control, or regulate fish and 
     resident wildlife under State law (including regulations), 
     including the regulation of hunting or fishing on public land 
     managed by the Bureau of Land Management.
       (i) Motorized Vehicles.--Except in cases in which motorized 
     vehicles are needed for administrative purposes or to respond 
     to an emergency, the use of motorized vehicles on public land 
     in the Recreation Area shall be permitted only on roads, 
     trails, and areas designated by the management plan for the 
     use by motorized vehicles.
       (j) Grazing.--In the Recreation Area, the grazing of 
     livestock in areas in which grazing is allowed as of the date 
     of the enactment of this Act shall be allowed to continue, 
     consistent with--
       (1) this Act;
       (2) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
     U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
       (3) any regulations promulgated by the Secretary, acting 
     through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management.
       (k) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all 
     Federal land within the Recreation Area is withdrawn from--
       (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
     the public land laws;
       (2) location, entry, and patenting under the mining laws; 
     and
       (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
     and geothermal leasing laws.
       (l) Fees.--Amounts received by the Secretary under the fee 
     structure required by subsection (d)(4) shall be--
       (1) deposited in a special account in the Treasury of the 
     United States; and
       (2) made available until expended to the Secretary for use 
     in the Recreation Area.
       (m) Risk Standard.--The National Oil and Hazardous 
     Substances Pollution Contingency Plan (section 300 of title 
     40, Code of Federal Regulations), published pursuant to 
     section 105 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
     Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9605), 
     shall not apply to the Secretary's management of asbestos 
     exposure risks faced by the public when recreating within the 
     Clear Creek Recreation Area described in section 3(b).

     SEC. 5. JOAQUIN ROCKS WILDERNESS.

       In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
     seq.), the approximately 21,000 acres of Federal lands 
     located in Fresno County and San Benito County, California, 
     and generally depicted on a map entitled ``Proposed Joaquin 
     Rocks Wilderness'' and dated February 14, 2017, is designated 
     as wilderness and as a component of the National Wilderness 
     Preservation System and shall be known as the ``Joaquin Rocks 
     Wilderness''.

     SEC. 6. RELEASE OF SAN BENITO MOUNTAIN WILDERNESS STUDY AREA.

       (a) Finding.--Congress finds that, for the purposes of 
     section 603 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
     1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782), the San Benito Mountain wilderness 
     study area has been adequately studied for wilderness 
     designation.
       (b) Release.--The San Benito Mountain wilderness study area 
     is no longer subject to section 603(c) of the Federal Land 
     Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)).

     SEC. 7. CLARIFICATION REGARDING FUNDING.

       No additional funds are authorized to carry out the 
     requirements of this Act. Such requirements shall be carried 
     out using amounts otherwise authorized.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. LaHood) and the gentleman from California (Mr. Panetta) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Illinois.


                             General Leave

  Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and include 
extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Illinois?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1913, introduced by the gentleman from California 
(Mr. Panetta), is a bipartisan bill that reopens public access and 
facilitates recreational activities in central California. The bill 
designates 63,000 acres as the Clear Creek National Recreation Area, 
21,000 acres as the Joaquin Rocks Wilderness, and releases 1,500 acres 
of wilderness study area.
  Once considered a world class off-highway vehicle, or OHV, recreation 
designation, the Clear Creek area has been closed to the public for 
nearly a decade due to concerns from the EPA about naturally occurring 
asbestos. However, after commissioning a study of the area, the State 
of California's Off-Highway Motor Vehicle Recreation Division found a 
minimal health risk to OHV users from exposure to naturally occurring 
asbestos. Despite these findings and appeals from local communities and 
OHV users, the Bureau of Land Management has not reopened the area to 
the public or for OHV use.
  This bill remedies the situation by reopening and redesignating the 
area as the Clear Creek National Recreation Area and including special 
provisions to prioritize and facilitate long-term, sustainable off-
highway vehicle access and recreation.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the measure, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. PANETTA. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1913 establishes the Clear Creek National 
Recreation Area and the Joaquin Rocks Wilderness Area on land 
administered by the Bureau of Land Management in the central coast 
region of California. From hiking and hunting to off-highway vehicle 
use, those designations will improve and enhance access for a variety 
of recreational activities, while ensuring that ecologically sensitive 
and unique areas are managed in a way that supports their lasting and 
permanent protection.
  In addition to the many ecological benefits they provide, including 
clean air and clean water, wilderness areas throughout the country play 
a large role in supporting the approximately $646 billion per year 
outdoor recreation economy, so I am pleased that we are advancing this 
bill to add 21,000 acres of the National Wilderness Preservation 
System.
  This bill has strong local support from San Benito County government 
officials and a number of off-highway vehicle and wilderness groups. 
These advocates understand that Clear Creek is important to the 
economy, and they have fond memories of the recreational opportunities 
when they were younger.
  I have received numerous support comments from my constituents, the 
off-highway vehicle community, and other California residents about the 
importance of Clear Creek to their family and how the closure has 
impacted them. It is time to honor the desire of my constituents in 
California's 20th Congressional District and pass this bill once again.
  Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record letters in support of the bill.

                                            San Benito County,

                                      Hollister, CA, June 1, 2017.
     Re Letter in Support of H.R. 1913.

     Hon. Jimmy Panetta,
     House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Representative Panetta: I would like to express my 
     support of proposed legislation H.R. 1913. On at least three 
     previous occasions, the San Benito County Board of 
     Supervisors has formally expressed their support of this 
     proposed measure in the form of H.R. 1776 as submitted by 
     then-Congressman Sam Farr.
       As background, the Serpentine Area of Critical 
     Environmental Concern (ACEC) of the Clear Creek Management 
     Area (CCMA) was closed in 2008 based on a study by the EPA 
     which concluded that naturally occurring asbestos (NOA) posed 
     a public health risk. However, in 2010, the Off Highway Motor 
     Vehicle Recreation (OHMVR) Division of the State of 
     California Department of Parks and Recreation Commissioned an 
     independent OHV-specific risk assessment of NOA exposure 
     within the Serpentine ACEC of the CCMA.
       This report, completed by the International Environmental 
     Research Foundation (IERF), concluded that management and 
     operation strategies could be employed to allow for off-
     highway vehicle (OHV) recreation in the CCMA without exposing 
     the public to higher than acceptable levels of NOA and 
     without presenting a serious risk to human health. 
     Specifically, the risk of OHV usage five days per year, for 
     eight hours on each of those days, was equated to being 
     similar to the lifetime risk of smoking less than one 
     cigarette one the same one year period, and the report noted 
     that other recreational activities, such as swimming, hiking 
     and snow skiing, are over 100 times more dangerous.
       In light of this report which directly contradicts the 
     conclusions of the EPA study and undermines the necessity of 
     BLM actions taken since 2008 in reliance of that study, it 
     would appear that closure of the ACEC is not scientifically 
     warranted, and especially not during winter months when dust 
     from OHV activity is greatly reduced.
       Therefore, the County supports opening the area to OHV 
     users once again and allowing the public access to this 
     natural area which is easily accessible to the urban 
     residents in the San Jose/San Francisco metropolitan areas. 
     H.R. 1913, which would establish the Clear Creek National 
     Recreation Area in San Benito and Fresno Counties, is 
     essential to enhancing public access to natural and scenic 
     areas within our State.
       The lack of evidence of a serious health risk is reinforced 
     by the fact that there is

[[Page H5411]]

     the lack of any documented case of any person, whether 
     recreational, visitor or governmental employee, injured by 
     NOA within the ACEC despite the use of the area for decades. 
     Therefore, the activities taken to close the area are 
     especially troubling considering the effect of the closure on 
     the public generally, as well as the local economy.
       Access to recreational areas within San Benito County, 
     including the CCMA, provides a necessary and substantial 
     component to the local economy which has been drastically 
     affected by the recent economic climate. The BLM's past 
     decision to close the Clear Creek area has already seriously 
     affected San Benito County's economic vitality. The County 
     could understand such action if there was truly a serious 
     health risk presented by use of the CCMA, but there is no 
     generally accepted scientific evidence, especially during 
     wetter winter months.
       The Clear Creek Management Area was among the five most 
     popular areas cited by California off-highway-vehicle (OHV) 
     users in a 1990 study conducted by the California Department 
     of Parks and Recreation. Many of these users were residents 
     of the San Jose and San Francisco Bay. In 2003 and 2004, 
     there were an estimated 50,000 visitors to the CCMA, largely 
     attributable to allowed OHV usage.
       In conclusion, the Board of Supervisors supports the 
     proposed legislation, as well as designation of the Clear 
     Creek Management Area as a National Recreation Area, 
     designation of OHV recreation as a ``prescribed use'' within 
     the National Recreation Area, and providing that the 
     management plan of the Clear Creek National Recreation Area, 
     including OHV routes, open areas, number of permitted OHV 
     events and other recreational activities should be as set 
     forth in the 2005 Clear Creek Travel Management Plan.
       Thank you for your consideration of this letter.
           Respectfully,

                                                Jerry Muenzer,

                                            Supervisor District 4,
     Board of Supervisors.
                                  ____



                                California Wilderness Project,

                                   Cottonwood, CA, April 20, 2017.
     Hon. Jimmy Panetta,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Panetta: We greatly appreciate your sponsorship of 
     H.R. 1913, the Clear Creek National Recreation Area and 
     Conservation Act. The legislation will permanently protect 
     21,000 acres of BLM land in Fresno and San Benito counties by 
     its inclusion in the National Wilderness Preservation System.
       The proposed Joaquin Rocks Wilderness follows the steep 
     northern slope of Joaquin Ridge which climbs high above the 
     floor of the western San Joaquin Valley.
       Rising up over 4,000 feet from the valley floor, the 
     striking Joaquin Rocks are the centerpiece of this remote 
     area. These three scenic 250' tall monoliths are the eroded 
     remnants of an ancient vaqueros sandstone formation.
       The Joaquin Rocks are named for the legendary Joaquin 
     Murieta, believed by some to be a heroic figure early 
     California and an outlaw by others. The Joaquin Rocks are 
     said to have provided a secluded hiding place for him and his 
     band place during the 1850s. The area also shows 
     archeological evidence of past Native American occupation.
       The rugged area features deep canyons where oak woodlands 
     cloak the numerous spur ridges that descend to the valley. 
     Vegetation in the area includes, blue oak, California 
     juniper, grey pine, chaparral, and native grasslands. Due to 
     the cooler climate provided by its elevation, the area 
     provides outstanding displays of native wildflowers well into 
     summer.
       The steep cliffs of the Joaquin Rocks--and the numerous 
     other towering sandstone formations found throughout the 
     area--are host to numerous falcons, hawks and owls. They 
     could also provide potential nesting habitat for the 
     California condor which has been reintroduced into the nearby 
     Gavilan Range. One of the peaks of the Joaquin Rocks--La 
     Centinela--hosts a vernal pool that supports fairy and 
     tadpole shrimp.
       The Joaquin Rocks proposed wilderness represents a unique 
     opportunity to preserve one of central California's most 
     outstanding natural landscapes and we sincerely appreciate 
     Mr. Panetta's efforts to protect it for future generations.
           Best Regards,
                                                   Gordon Johnson,
     Director.
                                  ____

                                                   April 10, 2017.
     Hon. Jimmy Panetta,
     House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Representative Panetta: As representatives of national 
     motorized recreation organizations we write in support of the 
     ``Clear Creek National Recreation Area and Conservation Act'' 
     (H.R. 1913). This legislation would designate 75,000 acres of 
     Federal land in San Benito and Fresno Counties in California 
     as the Clear Creek National Recreation Area (NRA) and would 
     ensure access for the responsible use of off-highway vehicles 
     (OHVs) in the area into the future.
       Clear Creek was closed in 2008 based on a questionable 
     safety rationale related to exposure to asbestos. 
     Subsequently the California Off-Highway Motor Vehicle 
     Recreation Commission commissioned an independent risk 
     assessment study which concluded that management and 
     operational strategies could be effectively employed in the 
     area to allow OHV use without exposing the public to 
     unacceptable risks. H.R. 1913 would guarantee that moving 
     forward, the area will be managed in such a way as to provide 
     for all sorts of legitimate and responsible recreation, while 
     also providing for the safety of all of the area's visitors.
       Our support for H.R. 1913 is possible because of the 
     endorsement of the bill from a broad array of local OHV 
     organizations, businesses and enthusiasts. This local support 
     is warranted not only because the legislation would reopen 
     the popular OHV area, but because a diverse group of 
     constituencies worked together on the bill.
       We thank you for your statement upon introduction which 
     makes it clear that you recognize the importance of multiple 
     uses on public lands--``This bipartisan bill not only 
     bolsters our area's conservation efforts, it also promotes 
     recreation and tourism in our region. When this bill passes, 
     locals and visitors will no longer be restricted from 
     enjoying all that Clear Creek Management Area has to offer.'' 
     We applaud this approach and hope that other Members of 
     Congress will look to H.R. 1913 as a model for how to garner 
     support for land use legislation.
       Thank you for introducing this important bill. We look 
     forward to working with you as it moves through the 
     legislative process.
           Sincerely,
         Larry Smith, Executive Director, Americans for 
           Responsible Recreational Access;
         Nicole Nicholas Gilles, Executive Director, American Sand 
           Association;
         Don Amador, Western Representative, BlueRibbon Coalition, 
           Inc.;
         Duane Taylor, Director, Federal Affairs, Motorcycle 
           Industry Council;
         Russ Ehnes, Executive Director, National Off-Highway 
           Vehicle Conservation Council;
         Tom Yager, Vice President, Recreational Off-Highway 
           Vehicle Association;
         Stuart D. Gosswein, Sr. Director, Federal Government 
           Affairs, Specialty Equipment Market Association;
         Kathy Van Kleeck, Senior Vice President, Government 
           Relations, Specialty Vehicle Institute of America;
         Steve Egbert, Vice President, United Four Wheel Drive 
           Associations, Inc.
                                  ____

                                             California Wilderness


                                                    Coalition,

                                       Anderson, CA, May 19, 2017.
     Subject: Support for H.R. 1913, the Clear Creek National 
         Recreation Area and Conservation Act
     Hon. Jimmy Panetta,
     U.S. House of Representatives,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Congressman Panetta: We are pleased to offer our 
     support for H.R. 1913, the Clear Creek National Recreation 
     Area and Conservation Act. We strongly support the 
     designation of the proposed 21,000-acre Joaquin Rocks 
     Wilderness and the protection of over 31 miles of streams as 
     wild and scenic rivers. We believe that the bill strikes a 
     reasonable balance between environmental protection, off-road 
     vehicle recreation, public safety and other considerations in 
     the Clear Creek-Joaquin Rocks area.
       Joaquin Rocks is one of the dramatic scenic features in the 
     region, with its three prominent pinnacles of rock standing 
     like sentinels above the San Joaquin Valley. Its oak 
     woodlands, grasslands and other plant communities provide 
     important habitat for sensitive plant and wildlife species. 
     Joaquin Rocks also has important historical values as, among 
     other things, the former hideout of the notorious outlaw 
     Joaquin Murrieta.
       Thank you for introducing and working to advance the 
     legislation. Please do not hesitate to contact us if we can 
     assist you in this or any other public lands-related matter.
           Sincerely,
                                                      Ryan Henson,
                                           Senior Policy Director.

  Mr. PANETTA. Mr. Speaker, this is a bipartisan bill, and I thank 
Chairman Bishop and Ranking Member Grijalva for their leadership, their 
work, and assistance in getting this bill to the floor of the House of 
Representatives. I also thank Representatives David Valadao, Jeff 
Denham, and Paul Cook, as well as my predecessor, Representative Sam 
Farr, and our staffs for their work on this bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge quick adoption of this legislation, and I yield 
back the balance of my time.
  Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague and friend for 
introducing this legislation, and I urge its adoption.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Hollingsworth). The question is on the 
motion offered by the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. LaHood) that the 
House suspend the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1913.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

[[Page H5412]]

  

                          ____________________



