

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 77 (Thursday, May 4, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 77 (Thursday, May 4, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2774]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Mr. Blumenthal):
       S. 1037. A bill to prohibit air carriers from imposing fees 
     that are not reasonable and proportional to the costs 
     incurred by the air carriers, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mrs. ERNST (for herself and Mrs. Gillibrand):
       S. 1038. A bill to require the Administrator of the Small 
     Business Administration to submit to Congress a report on the 
     utilization of small businesses with respect to certain 
     Federal contracts; to the Committee on Small Business and 
     Entrepreneurship.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself and Mr. McCain):
       S. 1039. A bill to indemnify local law enforcement entities 
     for complying with valid detainers issued by immigration 
     officers; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself and Mr. McCain):
       S. 1040. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to provide for a State-sponsored nonimmigrant pilot 
     program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. RUBIO:
       S. 1041. A bill to include the State of Florida in the Gulf 
     of Mexico outer Continental Shelf revenue sharing program, to 
     extend the moratorium on oil and gas leasing in certain areas 
     of the Gulf of Mexico, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BENNET (for himself and Mr. Isakson):
       S. 1042. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code to 
     exclude Segal Americorps Education Awards and related awards 
     from income; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BENNET (for himself and Mr. Hatch):
       S. 1043. A bill to authorize pay-for-success projects 
     designed to incentivize and reward successful efforts to 
     increase postsecondary education retention and completion 
     rates for low-income and first-generation students; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mrs. CAPITO (for herself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Cotton, and 
             Mr. Manchin):
       S. 1044. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to ensure equal access of Medicare beneficiaries to 
     community pharmacies in underserved areas as network 
     pharmacies under Medicare prescription drug coverage, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. 
             Tester, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Booker, Mr. 
             Brown, Ms. Cantwell, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Carper, Mr. 
             Casey, Mr. Coons, Ms. Cortez Masto, Mr. Donnelly, Ms. 
             Duckworth, Mr. Durbin, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Franken, 
             Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Harris, Ms. Hassan, Mr. 
             Heinrich, Ms. Heitkamp, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Kaine, Mr. 
             King, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Markey, Mrs. 
             McCaskill, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Murphy, Mr. 
             Nelson, Mr. Peters, Mr. Reed, Mr. Sanders, Mr. 
             Schatz, Mr. Schumer, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. 
             Udall, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Warner, Ms. Warren, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, and Mr. Wyden):
       S. 1045. A bill to guarantee coverage of certain women's 
     preventive services under all health plans; to the Committee 
     on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. HELLER (for himself and Ms. Cortez Masto):
       S. 1046. A bill to facilitate certain pinyon-juniper 
     related projects in Lincoln County, Nevada, to modify the 
     boundaries of certain wilderness areas in the State of 
     Nevada, and to fully implement the White Pine County 
     Conservation, Recreation, and Development Act; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BURR:
       S. 1047. A bill to provide for the recognition of the 
     Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Burr, and 
             Mr. Casey):
       S. 1048. A bill to expand patient access to experimental 
     treatments in clinical trials, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. HASSAN (for herself and Mr. Young):
       S. 1049. A bill to allow the Secretary of Health and Human 
     Services to require that risk evaluation and mitigation 
     strategies for certain drugs include communication plans that 
     provide information about drug formulations or properties 
     described in the drug labeling; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself and Mr. Cochran):
       S. 1050. A bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal, 
     collectively, to the Chinese-American Veterans of World War 
     II, in recognition of their dedicated service during World 
     War II; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Gardner, Mr. 
             Inhofe, Mr. Menendez, and Mr. Peters):
       S. 1051. A bill to encourage visits between the United 
     States and Taiwan at all levels, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. WICKER (for himself and Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 1052. A bill to strengthen the use of patient-experience 
     data within the benefit-risk framework for approval of new 
     drugs; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself and Mr. Lee):
       S. 1053. A bill to require the Secretary of the Interior to 
     issue new resource management plans applicable to the Beaver 
     Dam Wash National Conservation Area and the Red Cliffs 
     National Conservation Area and a new amendment to the St. 
     George Field Office Resource Management Plan, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. WICKER (for himself and Mr. Markey):
       S. 1054. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to ensure that electrochromic glass qualifies as energy 
     property for purposes of the energy credit; to the Committee 
     on Finance.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 1055. A bill to restrict the exportation of certain 
     defense articles to the Philippine National Police, to work 
     with the Philippines to support civil society and a public 
     health approach to substance abuse, to report on Chinese and 
     other sources of narcotics to the Republic of the 
     Philippines, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Relations.
           By Ms. HIRONO (for herself and Mr. Rounds):
       S. 1056. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to waive 
     the guarantee fee for veterans and spouses of veterans for 
     the Export Working Capital, International Trade, and Export 
     Express programs; to the Committee on Small Business and 
     Entrepreneurship.
           By Mr. NELSON (for himself, Mr. Portman, and Mr. 
             Peters):
       S. 1057. A bill to amend the Harmful Algal Bloom and 
     Hypoxia Research and Control Act of 1998 to address harmful 
     algal blooms, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. KENNEDY:
       S. 1058. A bill to authorize the Administrator of the 
     Federal Emergency Management Agency to terminate certain 
     contracts on the basis of detrimental conduct to the National 
     Flood Insurance Program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. GARDNER:
       S. 1059. A bill to extend the authorization of the Uranium 
     Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978 relating to the 
     disposal site in Mesa County, Colorado; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CRUZ:
       S. 1060. A bill to strengthen prohibitions regarding the 
     Palestine Liberation Organization, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr. Wyden):
       S. 1061. A bill to assure equity in contracting between the 
     Federal Government and small business concerns, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Small Business and 
     Entrepreneurship.
           By Mr. BURR (for himself and Mr. Young):
       S. 1062. A bill to increase reporting transparency and 
     accountability with respect to Food and Drug Administration 
     user fees; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. BROWN:
       S. 1063. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     establish direct care registered nurse-to-patient staffing 
     ratio requirements in hospitals, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.

                          ____________________



