

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2721-S2723]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 128

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, her name was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 128, a bill to provide provisional protected presence to 
qualified individuals who came to the United States as children.


                                 S. 168

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 168, a bill to 
amend and enhance certain maritime programs of the Department of 
Transportation.


                                 S. 223

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 223, a bill to provide 
immunity from suit for certain individuals who disclose potential 
examples of financial exploitation of senior citizens, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr. 
Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 236, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic 
beverages.


                                 S. 241

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 241, a bill to prohibit 
Federal funding of Planned Parenthood Federation of America.


                                 S. 260

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 260, a bill to repeal the 
provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act providing 
for the Independent Payment Advisory Board.


                                 S. 275

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 275, a bill to allow the 
financing by United States persons of sales of agricultural commodities 
to Cuba.


                                 S. 292

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the names of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker), the Senator from Maine (Ms. Collins), the Senator from 
Maine (Mr. King), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) and the Senator 
from

[[Page S2722]]

Georgia (Mr. Perdue) were added as cosponsors of S. 292, a bill to 
maximize discovery, and accelerate development and availability, of 
promising childhood cancer treatments, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 326

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 326, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for the tax-exempt financing 
of certain government-owned buildings.
  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 326, supra.


                                 S. 428

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) was added as a cosponsor of S. 428, a bill to 
amend titles XIX and XXI of the Social Security Act to authorize States 
to provide coordinated care to children with complex medical conditions 
through enhanced pediatric health homes, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 534

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the names of the Senator from 
Oregon (Mr. Merkley) and the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 534, a bill to prevent the sexual abuse of 
minors and amateur athletes by requiring the prompt reporting of sexual 
abuse to law enforcement authorities, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 693

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) and the Senator from Alaska (Ms. Murkowski) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 693, a bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
increase the number of permanent faculty in palliative care at 
accredited allopathic and osteopathic medical schools, nursing schools, 
social work schools, and other programs, including physician assistant 
education programs, to promote education and research in palliative 
care and hospice, and to support the development of faculty careers in 
academic palliative medicine.


                                 S. 708

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 708, a bill to improve the ability 
of U.S. Customs and Border Protection to interdict fentanyl, other 
synthetic opioids, and other narcotics and psychoactive substances that 
are illegally imported into the United States, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 766

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S. 766, a bill to amend 
titles 10 and 32, United States Code, to improve and enhance 
authorities relating to the employment, use, status, and benefits of 
military technicians (dual status), and for other purposes.


                                 S. 770

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the names of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) and the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 770, a bill to require the Director of the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology to disseminate resources 
to help reduce small business cybersecurity risks, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 829

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the names of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 829, a bill to reauthorize the Assistance to 
Firefighters Grants program, the Fire Prevention and Safety Grants 
program, and the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response 
grant program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 832

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 832, a bill to 
enhance the transparency and accelerate the impact of programs under 
the African Growth and Opportunity Act and the Millennium Challenge 
Corporation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 881

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the names of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 881, a bill to reduce risks to the financial system by 
limiting banks' ability to engage in certain risky activities and 
limiting conflicts of interest, to reinstate certain Glass-Steagall Act 
protections that were repealed by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 905

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 905, a bill to require a 
report on, and to authorize technical assistance for, accountability 
for war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide in Syria, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 910

  At the request of Mr. Schumer, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 910, a bill to prohibit 
discrimination against individuals with disabilities who need long-term 
services and supports, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 957

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper) was added as a cosponsor of S. 957, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to ensure that women members of the Armed 
Forces and their families have access to the contraception they need in 
order to promote the health and readiness of all members of the Armed 
Forces, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 976

  At the request of Mr. Enzi, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 976, a bill to restore 
States' sovereign rights to enforce State and local sales and use tax 
laws, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1001

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1001, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to modernize payments for ambulatory 
surgical centers under the Medicare program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1002

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1002, a bill to 
enhance the ability of community financial institutions to foster 
economic growth and serve their communities, boost small businesses, 
increase individual savings, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1004

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1004, a bill to amend the 
Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 to support 
innovative approaches to career and technical education and redesign 
the high school experience for students by providing students with 
equitable access to rigorous, engaging, and relevant real world 
education through partnerships with business and industry and higher 
education that prepare students to graduate from high school and enroll 
into postsecondary education without the need for remediation and with 
the ability to use knowledge to solve complex problems, think 
critically, communicate effectively, collaborate with others, and 
develop academic mindsets.


                              S.J. RES. 17

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. 
Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 17, a joint resolution 
approving the discontinuation of the process for consideration and 
automatic implementation of the annual proposal of the Independent 
Medicare Advisory Board under section 1899A of the Social Security Act.


                               S. RES. 60

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 60, a 
resolution designating May 5, 2017, as the ``National Day of Awareness 
for Missing and Murdered Native Women and Girls''.


                              S. RES. 136

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 136, a 
resolution expressing the sense of the Senate regarding the 102nd 
anniversary of the Armenian Genocide.

[[Page S2723]]

  

                          ____________________



