

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 107 (Thursday, June 22, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5053-H5054]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    IN MEMORY OF A.A. ``GUS'' KARLE

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Jenkins of West Virginia). The Chair 
recognizes the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Carter) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to remember the 
remarkable life of Mr. ``Gus'' Karle of Waycross, Georgia, who passed 
away on Sunday, May 7, 2017.
  From a young age, Mr. Karle was deeply interested in trains and 
railways. In 1939, he skipped school to visit his local train station, 
where he landed his first job at the young age of 12, working as an 
assistant porter, responsible for loading and unloading train 
passengers.
  After graduating from Wabash College in Indiana, he went on to start 
a career in railroad industry design and construction, working as an 
administrator for nearly 40 years.
  Mr. Karle's career was extremely important to the economic 
development of the City of Waycross, Georgia, by way of his involvement 
in the design of Rice Yard, one of the busiest CSX rail crossroads in 
the Nation. Rice Yard serves as a daily transfer point for nearly 3,000 
rail cars and remains one of the city's biggest employers, staffed by 
nearly 1,300 people from Ware and surrounding counties.
  Mr. Karle retired from CSX Railroad in 2016. Last year, former CSX 
president, Clarence Gooden, whom Mr. Karle hired and trained in 1970, 
proclaimed every November 16 ``A.A. `Gus' Karle Day'' in commemoration 
of Mr. Karle's hard work with the company.
  Mr. Karle is a legend around Waycross. I want to thank him and his 
family for everything that he did to make Waycross and the First 
Congressional District of Georgia what it is today.


               In Remembrance of Mrs. Nan Thompson Miller

  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to remember the life 
of Mrs. Nan Thompson Miller, who passed away on Saturday, June 10, at 
the age of 89, and was laid to rest last week in Dublin, Georgia.
  Mrs. Miller worked hard during her long life, selflessly serving 
others through a profession she loved.
  At the age of 17, Mrs. Miller joined the United States Army Nurse 
Corps and attended the University of Georgia to study nursing, where 
she was a member of the last graduating class to receive their RN 
degrees.
  Following the war, Mrs. Miller put her training to work with the 
Naval Hospital in Dublin, where she eventually rose to the position of 
head nurse before retiring in 1983.

  As a young nurse, Mrs. Miller met the late George Anderson Miller, to 
whom she was married for 55 years. The Millers were active members of 
their community that helped form the Pine Forest United Methodist 
Church. Mrs. Miller was also a member of the Pilot Club of Dublin, the 
Order of the Blarney Stone, and the American Nurses Association.
  Today, I have the pleasure of working with Mrs. Miller's 
granddaughter, Brooke. I can say from my own experience that Brooke's 
commitment to public service and dedication to our constituents is a 
wonderful testament to the legacy of her grandmother.
  Mr. Speaker, I hope all Members will join me; my wife, Amy; and my 
staff in sending our thoughts and prayers to the Miller family as they 
remember the life and legacy of Mrs. Nan Thompson Miller.


      Georgia Press Association Award Recipient, Kathleen Russell

  Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Ms. 
Kathleen Russell, from Darien, Georgia, who received the President's 
Award on behalf of the Georgia Press Association on Friday, June 2, 
2017.
  Ms. Russell's strong dedication to her role as longtime editor of The 
Darien News makes her worthy of such an honor. Each year, an individual 
who has exhibited outstanding leadership abilities and who serves as an 
innovator in Georgia's media industry is named a recipient of this 
prestigious award.
  For generations, members of Ms. Russell's family have worked in the 
press, and it is only fitting that Ms. Russell would find herself 
working as a journalist.
  Constituents remember Ms. Russell's beloved father, Mr. Charles 
Williamson, as a journalist who stood up to wrongdoers in McIntosh 
County, exposing corruption and theft by a multitude of former county 
officials.
  As a child, Kathleen assisted her parents in the production of the 
weekly newspaper. During that time, her parents nurtured her love for 
the press.
  After graduating from the University of Georgia in 1974, Ms. Russell 
began a career as an educator. She left education in pursuit of a 
career as a journalist and assumed the role of associate editor of The 
Darien News. In 2009, Ms. Russell was honored for her hard work when 
she was named publisher and editor of the newspaper.
  Ms. Russell has remained an active member of McIntosh County, serving 
on several boards over the years, including the Division of Family and

[[Page H5054]]

Children Services, Darien Downtown Development Authority, and the 
College of Coastal Georgia Foundation.
  Ms. Russell, I applaud your efforts to keep the citizens of Georgia's 
First Congressional District in tune with current events throughout our 
State and country.

                          ____________________



