

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3863-S3864]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 SENATE RESOLUTION 212--RECOGNIZING JUNE 2017 AS ``LGBTQ PRIDE MONTH''

  Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Franken, 
Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Booker, Ms. Cantwell, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Carper, Mr. 
Coons, Ms. Cortez Masto, Mr. Durbin, Ms. Harris, Mr. Heinrich, Ms. 
Hassan, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Markey, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Merkley, Mrs. 
Murray, Mr. Peters, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Udall, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Wyden, 
Ms. Warren, Mr. Casey, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Reed, Mr. Murphy, 
Mr. Van Hollen, and Ms. Stabenow) submitted the following resolution; 
which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary:

                              S. Res. 212

       Whereas individuals who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, 
     transgender, and queer (referred to in this preamble as 
     ``LGBTQ'') include individuals from all States and the 
     District of Columbia and all faiths, races, national origins, 
     socioeconomic statuses, education levels, and political 
     beliefs;
       Whereas LGBTQ people in the United States have made, and 
     continue to make, vital contributions to the United States 
     and to the world in every aspect, including in the fields of 
     education, law, health, business, science, research, economic 
     development, architecture, fashion, sports, government, 
     music, film, technology, literature, civil rights, and 
     politics;
       Whereas LGBTQ people in the United States serve as law 
     enforcement officers, firefighters, and first responders in 
     all States and the District of Columbia;
       Whereas LGBTQ people in the United States serve, and have 
     served, the United States Army, Coast Guard, Navy, Air Force, 
     and Marines, honorably and with distinction and bravery;
       Whereas an estimated number of more than 100,000 brave men 
     and women were discharged from the Armed Forces of the United 
     States between the beginning of World War II and 2011 because 
     of their sexual orientation, including the discharge of more 
     than 13,000 men and women under the ``Don't Ask, Don't Tell'' 
     policy in place between 1994 and 2011;
       Whereas LGBTQ people in the United States serve, and have 
     served, in positions in the Federal Government and State and 
     local governments, including as members of Congress, 
     Governors, mayors, and city council members;
       Whereas, throughout much of the history of the United 
     States, same-sex relationships were criminalized in many 
     States and many LGBTQ people in the United States were

[[Page S3864]]

     forced to hide their LGBTQ identities while living in secrecy 
     and fear;
       Whereas, on June 26, 2015, the Supreme Court of the United 
     States ruled in Obergefell v. Hodges, 135 S. Ct. 2584, that 
     same-sex couples have a constitutional right to marry and 
     acknowledged that ``many same-sex couples provide loving and 
     nurturing homes to their children,'' and that laws 
     prohibiting same-sex-marriage ``harm and humiliate the 
     children of same-sex couples'';
       Whereas Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (referred to in 
     this preamble as ``AIDS'') has disproportionately impacted 
     LGBTQ people in the United States partly caused by a lack of 
     funding and research devoted to finding effective treatment 
     for AIDS and the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (referred to in 
     this preamble as ``HIV'') during the early stages of the HIV 
     and AIDS epidemic;
       Whereas gay and bisexual men and transgender women of color 
     have a higher risk of contracting HIV;
       Whereas the LGBTQ community has maintained its unwavering 
     commitment to ending the HIV and AIDS epidemic;
       Whereas LGBTQ people in the United States face disparities 
     in employment, healthcare, education, and many other areas 
     central to the pursuit of happiness in the United States;
       Whereas 31 States have no explicit ban on discrimination 
     based on sexual orientation and gender identity in the 
     workplace, housing, or public accommodations, and 36 States 
     have no explicit ban on discrimination against LGBTQ 
     individuals in education;
       Whereas LGBTQ youth are at increased risk of suicide, 
     homelessness, and becoming victims of bullying and violence;
       Whereas the LGBTQ community has faced discrimination, 
     inequality, and violence throughout the history of the United 
     States;
       Whereas LGBTQ people in the United States, in particular 
     transgender individuals, face a disproportionately high risk 
     of becoming victims of violent hate crimes;
       Whereas members of the LGBTQ community have been targeted 
     in acts of mass violence, including--
       (1) the Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando, Florida on 
     June 12, 2016, where 49 people were killed; and
       (2) the arson attack at the UpStairs Lounge in New Orleans, 
     Louisiana on June 24, 1973, where 32 people died;
       Whereas LGBTQ people in the United States face persecution 
     and violence in many parts of the world, including State-
     sponsored violence;
       Whereas, in 2017 alone, hundreds of LGBTQ people around the 
     world have been arrested in countries and territories such as 
     Chechnya, Indonesia, and Bangladesh;
       Whereas the LGBTQ community has gathered in some of the 
     most dangerous places in the world to hold Pride festivals 
     and marches, despite threats of violence or arrest;
       Whereas, in 2009, President Barack Obama signed ``Matthew 
     Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act'' 
     (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2835) into law to protect all 
     people in the United States from crimes motivated by the 
     actual or perceived sexual orientation or gender identity of 
     an individual;
       Whereas the demonstrators that protested on June 28, 1969 
     following a law enforcement raid of the Stonewall Inn, an 
     LGBTQ club in New York City, are pioneers of the LGBTQ 
     movement for equality;
       Whereas LGBTQ people in the United States have fought for 
     equal treatment, dignity, and respect;
       Whereas LGBTQ people in the United States have achieved 
     significant milestones, ensuring that future generations of 
     LGBTQ people in the United States will enjoy a more equal and 
     just society;
       Whereas, despite being marginalized throughout the history 
     of the United States, LGBTQ people in the United States 
     continue to celebrate their identities, love, and 
     contributions to the United States in various expressions of 
     Pride; and
       Whereas the inclusion of LGBTQ people in the United States 
     continues to expand every day and LGBTQ people in the United 
     States remain determined to pursue equality, respect, and 
     inclusion for all individuals regardless of sexual 
     orientation or gender identity: Now, therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) supports the rights, freedoms, and equal treatment of 
     lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (referred to 
     in this resolving clause as ``LGBTQ'') people in the United 
     States and around the world;
       (2) acknowledges that LGBTQ rights are human rights that 
     are to be protected by the United States Constitution and 
     numerous international treaties and conventions;
       (3) commits to ensuring the equal treatment of all people 
     in the United States, regardless of sexual orientation and 
     gender identity;
       (4) commits to ensuring that the United States remains a 
     beacon of hope for the equal treatment of people around the 
     world, including LGBTQ individuals; and
       (5) encourages the celebration of June as ``LGBTQ Pride 
     Month'' in order to provide a lasting opportunity for all 
     people in the United States to learn about the discrimination 
     and inequality that the LGBTQ community endured, and 
     continues to endure, and to celebrate the contributions of 
     the LGBTQ community throughout the history of the United 
     States.

                          ____________________



