

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3041]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           MEASURES REFERRED

  The following bills were read the first and the second times by 
unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

       H.R. 194. An act to ensure the effective processing of mail 
     by Federal agencies, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 195. An act to amend title 44, United States Code, to 
     restrict the distribution of free printed copies of the 
     Federal Register to Members of Congress and other officers 
     and employees of the United States, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs.
       H.R. 653. An act to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     protect unpaid interns in the Federal Government from 
     workplace harassment and discrimination, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 672. An act to require continued and enhanced annual 
     reporting to Congress in the Annual Report on International 
     Religious Freedom on anti-Semitic incidents in Europe, the 
     safety and security of European Jewish communities, and the 
     efforts of the United States to partner with European 
     governments, the European Union, and civil society groups, to 
     combat anti-Semitism, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Relations.
       H.R. 984. An act to extend Federal recognition to the 
     Chickahominy Indian Tribe, the Chickahominy Indian Tribe-
     Eastern Division, the Upper Mattaponi Tribe, the Rappahannock 
     Tribe, Inc., the Monacan Indian Nation, and the Nansemond 
     Indian Tribe; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
       H.R. 1177. An act to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     release on behalf of the United States the condition that 
     certain lands conveyed to the City of Old Town, Maine, be 
     used for a municipal airport, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry .
       H.R. 1677. An act to halt the wholesale slaughter of the 
     Syrian people, encourage a negotiated political settlement, 
     and hold Syrian human rights abusers accountable for their 
     crimes; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
       H.R. 2154. An act to rename the Red River Valley 
     Agricultural Research Center in Fargo, North Dakota, as the 
     Edward T. Schafer Agricultural Research Center; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
       H.R. 2169. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to enhance information sharing in the Department of 
     Homeland Security State, Local, and Regional Fusion Center 
     Initiative, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 2227. An act to modernize Government information 
     technology, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
       H.R. 2266. An act to amend title 28 of the United States 
     Code to authorize the appointment of additional bankruptcy 
     judges; and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
       H.R. 2281. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to reauthorize the Border Enforcement Security Task 
     Force program within the Department of Homeland Security, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.

                          ____________________



