

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 74 (Monday, May 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 74 (Monday, May 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2650-S2651]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 180

  At the request of Mr. Sanders, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 180, a bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to reform 
and reduce fraud and abuse in certain visa programs for aliens working 
temporarily in the United States, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 307

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper) was added as a cosponsor of S. 307, a bill to enhance the 
database of emergency response capabilities of the Department of 
Defense.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 324, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to improve the provision of adult day health 
care services for veterans.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to amend the 
Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving through the mail 
shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and to 
require the provision of advance electronic information on shipments of 
mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and for other purposes.


                                 S. 384

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Ms. Cantwell) was added as a cosponsor of S. 384, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the new markets tax 
credit, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 470

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 470, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to enhance the Child and 
Dependent Care

[[Page S2651]]

Tax Credit and make the credit fully refundable.


                                 S. 568

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 568, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to count a period of receipt of 
outpatient observation services in a hospital toward satisfying the 3-
day inpatient hospital requirement for coverage of skilled nursing 
facility services under Medicare.


                                 S. 593

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 593, a bill to amend the 
Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to facilitate the 
establishment of additional or expanded public target ranges in certain 
States.


                                 S. 652

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from 
Washington (Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 652, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize a program for early 
detection, diagnosis, and treatment regarding deaf and hard-of-hearing 
newborns, infants, and young children.


                                 S. 681

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 681, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the benefits and 
services provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs to women 
veterans, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. Schumer) and the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. Ernst) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 720, a bill to amend the Export Administration Act of 
1979 to include in the prohibitions on boycotts against allies of the 
United States boycotts fostered by international governmental 
organizations against Israel and to direct the Export-Import Bank of 
the United States to oppose boycotts against Israel, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 760

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 760, a bill to expand the 
Government's use and administration of data to facilitate transparency, 
effective governance, and innovation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 766

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the names of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Cardin) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 766, a bill to amend titles 10 and 32, 
United States Code, to improve and enhance authorities relating to the 
employment, use, status, and benefits of military technicians (dual 
status), and for other purposes.


                                 S. 784

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 784, a bill to 
provide for an increase, effective December 1, 2017, in the rates of 
compensation for veterans with service-connected disabilities and the 
rates of dependency and indemnity compensation for the survivors of 
certain disabled veterans, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 845

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 845, a bill to 
protect sensitive community locations from harmful immigration 
enforcement action, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 849

  At the request of Mr. King, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 849, a bill to support 
programs for mosquito-borne and other vector-borne disease surveillance 
and control.


                                 S. 856

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the names of the Senator from 
Oregon (Mr. Wyden) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 856, a bill to amend the Higher Education Act 
of 1965 and the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and 
Campus Crime Statistics Act to combat campus sexual assault, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 867

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 867, a bill to 
provide support for law enforcement agency efforts to protect the 
mental health and well-being of law enforcement officers, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 916

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 916, a bill to amend the 
Controlled Substances Act with regard to the provision of emergency 
medical services.


                                 S. 920

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from 
Washington (Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 920, a bill to 
establish a National Clinical Care Commission.


                                 S. 925

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the names of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley), the Senator from Utah (Mr. Hatch), the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) and the Senator from Montana (Mr. Tester) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 925, a bill to amend title 38, United States 
Code, to improve the ability of health care professionals to treat 
veterans through the use of telemedicine, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 926

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 926, a bill to authorize 
the Global War on Terror Memorial Foundation to establish the National 
Global War on Terrorism Memorial as a commemorative work in the 
District of Columbia, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 976

  At the request of Mr. Enzi, the names of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken), the Senator from Maine (Mr. King) and the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) were added as cosponsors of S. 976, a bill 
to restore States' sovereign rights to enforce State and local sales 
and use tax laws, and for other purposes.


                            S. CON. RES. 12

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Crapo), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) and the Senator 
from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) were added as cosponsors of S. Con. Res. 
12, a concurrent resolution expressing the sense of Congress that those 
who served in the bays, harbors, and territorial seas of the Republic 
of Vietnam during the period beginning on January 9, 1962, and ending 
on May 7, 1975, should be presumed to have served in the Republic of 
Vietnam for all purposes under the Agent Orange Act of 1991.


                               S. RES. 75

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 75, a 
resolution recognizing the 100th anniversary of the Academy of 
Nutrition and Dietetics, the largest organization of food and nutrition 
professionals in the world.


                              S. RES. 106

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 106, a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate to support the territorial integrity 
of Georgia.


                              S. RES. 114

  At the request of Mr. Young, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) and the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 114, a resolution expressing the sense of the 
Senate on humanitarian crises in Nigeria, Somalia, South Sudan, and 
Yemen.

                          ____________________



