

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4514-H4515]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PRESIDENT'S PROPOSED BUDGET

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
New Jersey (Mrs. Watson Coleman) for 5 minutes.
  Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, first of all, I want to announce 
that my foster shadow, Shaderra Riddick, who is a Rutgers student 
studying anthropology, is with me today in the gallery. I am delighted 
to have her with me, and I offer these remarks on her behalf.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask a simple question to my colleagues 
here who support President Trump's budget proposal: What kind of 
America do you envision?
  What kind of America do you envision when you support proposed tax 
plans that line the pockets of Wall Street investors, yet raise taxes 
for the working men and women struggling to make ends meet.
  What kind of America do you envision when you support rewarding 
corporations that willfully and admittedly evade American tax laws by 
stashing profits overseas and, even with proposed tax amenities, still 
punish their rank-and-file employees that can't save because they are 
paid below a living wage?
  What kind of America do you envision when you proudly support the 
elimination of Federal agencies that protect our workers from 
discrimination or subject our children to an environment that is 
unhealthy and harmful to their health?
  The President's budget proposal released yesterday is built on 
heartless cuts to Medicaid; SNAP; Social Security disability insurance 
benefits; additional income for poor seniors, disabled adults, and 
children; and public assistance for needy families.
  It threatens regular Americans' ability to buy a home and the ability 
for that home to even be an investment worth the risk.
  Mr. Speaker, sadly, this budget is the latest in a series of actions 
that begs

[[Page H4515]]

the question: What kind of America do my Republican colleagues and the 
President envision for our future? One where the investor class 
thrives, but the majority of working-class Americans suffer? One where 
our environment provides temporary profits, but irreparable harm? One 
where we make a promise to seniors while they work hard to build and 
sustain our economy, but, upon retirement, snatch away their 
investments, along with any safety net?
  Mr. Speaker, I envision a different America. I envision an America 
where an honest day's work, no matter where you clock in, deserves a 
living wage. I envision an America where my granddaughter, Kamryn, will 
make the same amount as your grandson for the same work. I envision an 
America where we double down on our investment in public education, and 
where we double down on our investment in this country's future. I 
envision a country where commonsense gun legislation limits the 
opportunity for tragedy to strike in our schools and churches at the 
hands of hatred and bigotry.
  The America I am working toward is an America that celebrates the 
richness of our diversity, seeks to right past wrongs, an America to be 
envied.
  Mr. Speaker, I refuse to concede that we were too divided along this 
aisle that we can't create new, good-paying jobs, educate our kids, 
train our workers, create jobs for those workers, and create an America 
ripe with new opportunity for all.
  Mr. Speaker, the America I envision, the America I believe in, the 
America that we deserve is within our reach. Unfortunately, that 
America is threatened, ignored, and displaced with this President's 
budget proposal.
  So, again, I ask this question of the President and of my Republican 
colleagues who will support this callous and shameful budget proposal: 
What kind of America do you envision, and when will you stand up and 
fight for the America we all deserve?
  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs. Mimi Walters of California). Members 
are reminded to address their remarks to the Chair and that it is not 
in order to introduce occupants in the gallery to the House.

                          ____________________



