

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 121 (Tuesday, July 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 121 (Tuesday, July 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4052]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

                                 ______
                                 

              200TH ANNIVERSARY OF MONROE COUNTY, MICHIGAN

 Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the 200th 
anniversary of Monroe County, MI. Situated in southeast Michigan on the 
west shore of Lake Erie, Monroe County is endowed with rich historical 
and natural treasures, built on a strong agricultural base, home to 
innovative industries, and populated with dedicated citizens and 
entrepreneurs.
  Founded by Potawatomi Tribes and, later, French missionaries, the 
history of Monroe County dates back to 1634. French missionaries built 
the first settlement, named Frenchtown, on the territory and 
established both a trading post and fort in 1788. The River Raisin 
provided an agricultural center for the residents of Frenchtown, with 
an abundance of natural resources to contribute to economic growth. 
However, in 1813, the Battle of the River Raisin occurred near 
Frenchtown, resulting in mass human and economic loss. Recognized as 
the deadliest battle recorded during the War of 1812, the U.S. Congress 
included the River Raisin National Battlefield Park as part of the 
National Park Service in 2009, the only national park that commemorates 
the human contributions and historic legacy of the War of 1812.
  As one of the first steps in organizing the Michigan Territory after 
the War of 1812, Governor Lewis Cass established Monroe County in 1817 
as the second county in the State of Michigan. At the time, Monroe 
County included all of Lenawee and portions of Wayne and Washtenaw 
Counties. The old settlement of Frenchtown adopted the name ``Monroe'' 
in honor of President James Monroe and became the county seat. The 
flourishing county experienced economic growth and prosperity from the 
agricultural and paper manufacturing industries, from the first paper 
mill, Raisinville Mill, in 1834, to River Raisin Paper Company in 1910, 
to IKO Monroe, Incorporated, in 2000.
  In the early 20th century, Monroe County hit another industrial 
milestone with the establishment of Monroe Auto Equipment World 
Headquarters, formerly referred to as Brisk Blast, in 1916, and the 
Newton Steel plant in 1959. Monroe County gained the reputation as the 
transportation hub in the State of Michigan, home to international 
ports on Lake Erie and one of the largest highway gateways into 
Michigan. The development of transportation infrastructure played a 
crucial role in connecting the residents of Monroe County to goods and 
services. Monroe County also attracted entrepreneurs and inventors from 
across the United States, including Edward Knabush and Edwin Shoemaker 
who revolutionized furniture design and comfort when they invented the 
first upholstered reeling chair in 1929.
  Today Monroe County is a vibrant community of nearly 150,000 
residents who enjoy historic downtowns, beautiful parks, and safe 
neighborhoods. Residing along the shoreline of the River Raisin and 
Lake Erie, Monroe County offers a multitude of recreational 
activities--boating, swimming, camping, hiking, and fishing--at the 
Eagle Island Marsh unit of the Detroit River International Wildlife 
Refuge and Sterling State Park. Monroe County is also active in the 
preservation and promotion of its history by recognizing significant 
landmarks and sites, including the Dundee Old Mill Museum and Navarre 
Anderson Trading Post. With its rich historical and natural resources, 
Monroe County is recognized as one of the top visitor destinations in 
the State of Michigan.
  Monroe County has been an integral part of the State of Michigan and 
our great Nation for 200 years. As Monroe County celebrates this 
milestone, I am honored to ask my colleagues to join me in 
congratulating its residents, elected officials, and businesses as they 
recognize their history. I wish the county continued growth and 
prosperity in the years ahead.

                          ____________________



