

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4667-S4668]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Ms. Hassan):
       S. 1682. A bill to facilitate a national pipeline of 
     spectrum for commercial use, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. DONNELLY:
       S. 1683. A bill to amend the Federal Election Campaign Act 
     of 1971 to reduce the number of members of the Federal 
     Election Commission from 6 to 5, to revise the method of 
     selection and terms of service of members of the Commission, 
     to distribute the powers of the Commission between the Chair 
     and the remaining members, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Rules and Administration.
           By Ms. HIRONO:
       S. 1684. A bill to establish a position of Science Laureate 
     of the United States, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. SCOTT (for himself and Mr. Warner):
       S. 1685. A bill to require Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to 
     establish procedures for considering certain credit scores in 
     making a determination whether to purchase a residential 
     mortgage, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself and Mr. Kennedy):
       S. 1686. A bill to amend the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
     Conservation and Management Act to provide for management of 
     red snapper in the Gulf of Mexico, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. MERKLEY:
       S. 1687. A bill to establish the Financing Energy Efficient 
     Manufacturing Program at the Department of Energy to provide 
     financial assistance to promote energy efficiency and onsite 
     renewable technologies in manufacturing facilities, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Bennet, 
             Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Booker, Mr. Brown, Ms. Cantwell, 
             Mr. Cardin, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Franken, Ms. Harris, 
             Ms. Hassan, Mr. Heinrich, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Kaine, Mr. 
             King, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Manchin, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. 
             Merkley, Mr. Murphy, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Nelson, Mr. 
             Schumer, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Udall, Mr. 
             Van Hollen, Mr. Warner, Ms. Warren, Mr. Wyden, Mrs. 
             Gillibrand, and Mr. Whitehouse):
       S. 1688. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services to 
     negotiate fair prescription drug prices under part D of the 
     Medicare program; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BOOKER:
       S. 1689. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     provide for a new rule regarding the application of the Act 
     to marihuana, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Durbin, 
             Mrs. Gillibrand, and Mr. Casey):
       S. 1690. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to provide greater support to students with dependents, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr. Gardner, Mr. Wyden, and 
             Mr. Daines):
       S. 1691. A bill to provide minimal cybersecurity 
     operational standards for Internet-connected devices 
     purchased by Federal agencies, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. COONS (for himself, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Cotton, Mr. 
             Cassidy, Mrs. Shaheen, and Ms. Warren):
       S. 1692. A bill to authorize the National Emergency Medical 
     Services Memorial Foundation to establish a commemorative 
     work in the District of Columbia and its environs, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. 
             McCain, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. Cornyn, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. 
             Blunt, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Casey, Ms. Collins, Mr. 
             Corker, Mr. Cruz, Mr. Flake, Mr. Graham, Mr. Isakson, 
             Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Lankford, Mr. Lee, Mr. Nelson, Mr. 
             Rubio, Mr. Brown, Ms. Murkowski, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. 
             Hoeven, and Mr. Cochran):
       S. 1693. A bill to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to 
     clarify that section 230 of that Act does not prohibit the 
     enforcement against providers and users of interactive 
     computer services of Federal and State criminal and civil law 
     relating to sex trafficking; to the Committee on Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. Casey, and Mr. Coons):
       S. 1694. A bill to improve quality and accountability for 
     educator preparation programs; to the Committee on Health, 
     Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr. Durbin):
       S. 1695. A bill to establish centers of excellence for 
     innovative stormwater control infrastructure, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. UDALL:
       S. 1696. A bill to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to 
     provide for a smart energy and water efficiency management 
     pilot program; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. GRAHAM (for himself, Mr. Manchin, Mr. Corker, 
             Mr. Blunt, Mr. Cotton, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Risch, Mr. 
             Rounds, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Young, Mr. Crapo, Mr. Shelby, 
             and Mr. Cruz):

[[Page S4668]]

  

       S. 1697. A bill to condition assistance to the West Bank 
     and Gaza on steps by the Palestinian Authority to end 
     violence and terrorism against Israeli citizens and United 
     States Citizens; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr. Sullivan):
       S. 1698. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to clarify the treatment of contributions to Alaska Native 
     Settlement Trusts, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Finance.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. Leahy, Mrs. Feinstein, 
             Mr. Durbin, Mr. Udall, Mr. Merkley, and Mrs. Murray):
       S. 1699. A bill to lift the trade embargo on Cuba, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. GRAHAM (for himself, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Isakson, Mr. 
             Risch, Mr. Grassley, and Mr. Rubio):
       S.J. Res. 48. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States relating to parental 
     rights; to the Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



