

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 88 (Monday, May 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 88 (Monday, May 22, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4423-H4424]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. BARLETTA (for himself, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Renacci, Mrs. Noem, Mr. Duncan of 
             South Carolina, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Rogers of 
             Alabama, Mr. McKinley, and Mr. McCaul):
       H.R. 2581. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to require the provision of social security numbers as a 
     condition of receiving the health insurance premium tax 
     credit; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. LOVE:
       H.R. 2582. A bill to authorize the State of Utah to select 
     certain lands that are available for disposal under the Pony 
     Express Resource Management Plan to be used for the support 
     and benefit of State institutions, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself, Mr. Richmond, 
             Mr. Crist, Ms. Norton, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. 
             Connolly, and Mr. Beyer):
       H.R. 2583. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Housing and 
     Urban Development to carry out a Community Resilience Grant 
     Program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. HURD (for himself, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Reichert, and 
             Ms. Hanabusa):
       H.R. 2584. A bill to amend title 54, United States Code, to 
     establish, fund, and provide for the use of amounts in a 
     National Park Service Legacy Restoration Fund to address the 
     maintenance backlog of the National Park Service, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. CAPUANO (for himself, Mr. Jones, Mr. Ellison, 
             Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Conyers, and Mr. McGovern):
       H.R. 2585. A bill to reduce risks to the financial system 
     by limiting banks' ability to engage in certain risky 
     activities and limiting conflicts of interest, to reinstate 
     certain Glass-Steagall Act protections that were repealed by 
     the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. CARBAJAL:
       H.R. 2586. A bill to require an independent assessment and 
     report of subversive activities of the Russian Federation, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. DELANEY (for himself, Ms. Herrera Beutler, Mr. 
             Capuano, and Mr. Lynch):
       H.R. 2587. A bill to provide for the coverage of medically 
     necessary food and vitamins for digestive and inherited 
     metabolic disorders under Federal health programs and private 
     health insurance, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Ways and Means, Armed Services, and Oversight and Government 
     Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. GABBARD (for herself, Mr. Perry, and Mr. Polis):
       H.R. 2588. A bill to amend the Foreign Intelligence 
     Surveillance Act of 1978 to codify the prohibition on the 
     acquisition of ``about'' communications under section 702 of 
     such Act; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Intelligence (Permanent Select), for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KINZINGER (for himself, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. 
             Farenthold, Mr. Tipton, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Clay, Ms. 
             Bonamici, Ms. DelBene, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Conyers, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Lipinski, 
             Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Harper, Mr. 
             Kind, Mr. McKinley, Mr. Heck, Mr. Stewart, Mr. 
             Yarmuth, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Turner, Mr. King of Iowa, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Rogers of Kentucky, Ms. Shea-
             Porter, Mr. Takano, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Deutch, Mr. 
             Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. Rodney Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. 
             Foster, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Yoder, Mr. Delaney, Mr. 
             Hill, Mr. Langevin, Ms. Moore, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney 
             of Florida, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Flores, 
             Mr. Young of Alaska, Ms. McCollum, Mrs. Blackburn, 
             Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, and Ms. 
             Slaughter):
       H.R. 2589. A bill to waive the 24-month waiting period for 
     Medicare eligibility for individuals disabled by Huntington's 
     disease; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. LEE (for herself, Mr. Butterfield, Ms. Judy Chu 
             of California, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. 
             DelBene, Ms. Fudge, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Mr. Polis, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Ms. Titus, 
             and Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas):
       H.R. 2590. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Education 
     to carry out a program to increase access to prekindergarten 
     through grade 12 computer science education; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Duncan 
             of South Carolina, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, and Mr. 
             Veasey):
       H.R. 2591. A bill to amend the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife 
     Restoration Act to modernize the funding of wildlife 
     conservation, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ:
       H.R. 2592. A bill to amend the definitions relating to 
     HUBZones in the Small Business Act, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Small Business.
           By Mr. ISSA (for himself, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Peters, Mr. 
             Vargas, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
             Cook, Mr. Knight, Mr. Himes, Mr. Byrne, Mrs. 
             Hartzler, Mr. Gallagher, Mr. Calvert, Mr. Moulton, 
             Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. 
             Wittman, Mr. Roe of Tennessee,

[[Page H4424]]

             Mr. Chabot, Mr. Cole, Mr. LaMalfa, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. 
             Bost, Mr. Coffman, Mrs. Mimi Walters of California, 
             Mr. Hill, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Correa, Mr. Kilmer, and 
             Mr. Banks of Indiana):
       H. Con. Res. 59. Concurrent resolution recognizing the 75th 
     anniversary of Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. RASKIN (for himself, Mr. Culberson, Mr. Mooney 
             of West Virginia, and Mr. Cicilline):
       H. Res. 349. A resolution calling for the global repeal of 
     blasphemy, heresy, and apostasy laws; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. HARPER:
       H. Res. 350. A resolution permitting official photographs 
     of the House of Representatives to be taken while the House 
     is in actual session on a date designated by the Speaker; to 
     the Committee on House Administration.

                          ____________________



