

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3024]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          RUSSIA INVESTIGATION

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, last night, Deputy Attorney General Rod 
Rosenstein appointed former FBI Director Robert Mueller as a special 
counsel to oversee the investigation into Russia's interference in the 
2016 elections.
  This was a very good first step. Mr. Rosenstein has done the right 
thing. I applaud his decision for both its correctness and its 
courage. A special counsel was much called for in this situation. 
Former Director Mueller is the right kind of individual for the job. I 
now have significantly greater confidence that the investigation will 
follow the facts wherever they lead. Additionally, as special counsel, 
Mr. Mueller must have broad latitude to pursue the Russia 
investigation. In the appointment order, it stipulates that the special 
counsel is authorized to investigate ``any matters that arose or may 
arise directly from this investigation.'' That is a really important 
power, given recent reports about an active FBI investigation into 
General Flynn.

  I am heartened by the news of Mr. Mueller's appointment, but it in no 
way diminishes the need for Congress to play an active role in helping 
to get to the bottom of recent events. Intelligence Committee Chairman 
Burr and Ranking Member Warner should still pursue the congressional 
investigation into these matters with just as much vigor. That 
investigation has been proceeding in a bipartisan way, and it 
absolutely should continue as such.
  We should still seek testimony from Mr. Comey in both the Judiciary 
and Intelligence Committees to discuss the events surrounding his 
dismissal and be given access to memos and transcripts or tapes of his 
conversations with President Trump. Mr. Comey was central to the events 
of the past few weeks. We still need to hear from him. I thank the 
bipartisan leadership of both the Intelligence and Judiciary Committees 
for requesting both the records and public testimony of Director Comey.
  Congress, specifically the Judiciary and Intelligence Committees, 
should still be given access to any transcripts or related summaries of 
the President's meeting with the Russian Foreign Minister and 
Ambassador, during which reports have alleged he may have divulged 
highly sensitive intelligence.
  Finally, there is still a great need as before for the next FBI 
Director to be someone who is nonpartisan, independent, fearless, and 
of unimpeachable integrity. A career politician of either party or 
anyone who suggests a lack of impartiality, should not be considered. 
The appointment of Mr. Mueller is a great first step toward getting the 
Russia investigation back on solid ground, but these other things also 
need to happen: Mr. Comey testifying; the White House turning over to 
Congress the relevant tapes and transcripts, if they exist; and the 
selection of an independent, impartial FBI Director.
  Later this afternoon, the Deputy Attorney General, Rod Rosenstein, 
will brief all 100 Senators at the request of the two leaders, the 
majority leader and myself. He can brief us on a great many things, 
including the events of Mr. Comey's dismissal and the status of the 
Russia investigation.
  While the briefing itself will not take place in a public setting, I 
hope that much of what we learn today can be shared with the American 
public.
  So in the interest of getting all the facts, we in Congress look 
forward to hearing from Mr. Rosenstein this afternoon. It is a sign 
that while we wholeheartedly applaud the appointment of a special 
counsel, we in Congress must continue to do our jobs as well.

                          ____________________



