

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 79 (Monday, May 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 79 (Monday, May 8, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4185-H4186]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois (for himself, Mr. 
             Lipinski, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, and Mr. MacArthur):
       H.R. 2399. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow employers a credit against income tax for 
     employees who participate in qualified apprenticeship 
     programs; to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. ISSA:
       H.R. 2400. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     allow individuals who are not Federal employees to enroll in 
     the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico (for 
             herself, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Ms. DeLauro, and Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New 
             Mexico):
       H.R. 2401. A bill to amend the Richard B. Russell National 
     School Lunch Act to prohibit the stigmatization of children 
     who are unable to pay for meals; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico (for himself, Ms. 
             Cheney, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Tipton, Mr. O'Halleran, and 
             Mr. Comer):
       H.R. 2402. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the 
     Interior to retire coal preference right lease applications 
     for which the Secretary has made an affirmative commercial 
     quantities determination, to substitute certain land 
     selections of the Navajo Nation, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. MOORE (for herself, Mr. Emmer, Ms. Maxine Waters 
             of California, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, 
             Mr. Meeks, Mr. Heck, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Clay, Mr. 
             Cleaver, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. 
             Messer, Mr. Zeldin, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. Hill, and Mr. 
             Lucas):
       H.R. 2403. A bill to amend the Federal Deposit Insurance 
     Act to ensure that the reciprocal deposits of an insured 
     depository institution are not considered to be funds 
     obtained by or through a deposit broker, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. PLASKETT (for herself, Ms. Bordallo, Mrs. 
             Radewagen, Mr. Serrano, and Ms. Velazquez):
       H.R. 2404. A bill to amend titles XVIII and XIX of the 
     Social Security Act to make improvements to the treatment of 
     the United States territories under the Medicare and Medicaid 
     programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WALBERG (for himself, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Burgess, 
             and Mr. Peterson):

[[Page H4186]]

  

       H. Res. 318. A resolution promoting awareness of motorcycle 
     profiling and encouraging collaboration and communication 
     with the motorcycle community and law enforcement officials 
     to prevent instances of profiling; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.

                          ____________________



