

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 69 (Monday, April 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 69 (Monday, April 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2473-S2474]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        ISSUES BEFORE THE SENATE

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, over the past couple of weeks, Senators 
have had the opportunity to travel to their States, meet with those 
they represent, and talk about issues that matter most to their 
communities. I think I speak on behalf of each of my colleagues when I 
say that this is one of the most important aspects of our jobs. Hearing 
from those we represent and engaging in discussions about the issues 
they face allow us to better serve as their voices here in the Senate.
  It was a productive State work period, and I know we are all eager to 
get back to work here in Washington on many important issues. So I 
would like to welcome back my colleagues as we head into what is sure 
to be a busy work period.
  As we all know, bipartisan talks continued through the State work 
period on the way forward on government funding legislation. Those 
discussions continue this week so we can complete our work on that 
issue very soon.
  And, today, we will have the opportunity to advance two well-
qualified administration nominees. In just a couple of hours, we will 
vote to confirm former Georgia Governor Sonny Perdue to be our next 
Secretary of Agriculture.
  Governor Perdue--who grew up on a farm, worked as a veterinarian, and 
eventually led a State with a $74 billion agricultural sector--has been 
around agriculture his entire life. He is well qualified to oversee and 
implement this Nation's agriculture, forestry, and food policies. 
Because of his more than 20 years of public service, Governor Perdue 
has garnered significant bipartisan backing and was reported out of 
committee with a near unanimous vote. This is good news for our 
country, and it is certainly good news for my home State of Kentucky.
  Kentucky has a strong heritage of agriculture, which plays an 
invaluable role in our economy. From traditional cash crops like corn 
and soybeans to groundbreaking innovations like industrial hemp, 
Kentuckians continue to be on the forefront of agriculture with 
cutting-edge research and quality products. In addition, Kentucky is 
recognized as the world capital of both bourbon and horses. These 
industries contribute to the State's economy and to our tourism. As the 
world turns to the Commonwealth for the 143rd Kentucky Derby, our 
agricultural sector will be on full display.
  I look forward to voting to confirm Governor Perdue later today, just 
as I look forward to working with him to continue developing smart 
agricultural policies that support both Kentucky and our country.
  Then we will take a vote to advance the nomination of Rod Rosenstein 
to be Deputy Attorney General. Rod Rosenstein was confirmed to his 
current position as the U.S. attorney for the District of Maryland by a 
voice vote. He was nominated to that position by President Bush and 
retained it under President Obama--throughout President Obama's entire 
term of office.
  He comes to the Senate with a recommendation of Democrats, like our 
former colleague Senator Mikulski and Maryland's Democratic attorney 
general, who said that ``[Rod] Rosenstein would be an `outstanding' 
deputy attorney general.''
  Rosenstein has earned so much bipartisan support to serve as the 
Deputy Attorney General that the Judiciary Committee reported out his 
nomination with all but one member voting in the affirmative. So, 
clearly, there is no need to force additional procedural hurdles on 
this nominee. Yet, our colleagues across the aisle have decided to 
force an unnecessary cloture vote on his nomination anyway. It is the 
latest in a long pattern this year of needless Democratic obstruction 
that is not intended to change a result--just delay

[[Page S2474]]

for delay's sake. I would urge our Democratic friends to reconsider 
what they are doing.
  Mr. Rosenstein is a highly qualified nominee. He is well respected 
across the political spectrum and within the legal and law enforcement 
communities. He should be confirmed without further delay.

                          ____________________



