

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2616-S2618]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 104

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 104, a bill to provide for 
the vacating of certain convictions and expungement of certain arrests 
of victims of human trafficking.


                                 S. 109

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 109, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for coverage under the 
Medicare program of pharmacist services.


                                 S. 203

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Alabama (Mr. 
Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 203, a bill to reaffirm that 
the Environmental Protection Agency may not regulate vehicles used 
solely for competition, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 223

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton), the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) and the 
Senator from Washington (Mrs. Murray) were added as cosponsors of S. 
223, a bill to provide immunity from suit for certain individuals who 
disclose potential examples of financial exploitation of senior 
citizens, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall), the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Cochran), the Senator 
from Wyoming (Mr. Barrasso), the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Isakson) and 
the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) were added as cosponsors of S. 236, a 
bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of 
alcoholic beverages.


                                 S. 251

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. 
Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 251, a bill to repeal the 
Independent Payment Advisory Board in order to ensure that it cannot be 
used to undermine the Medicare entitlement for beneficiaries.


                                 S. 260

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 260, a bill to repeal the 
provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act providing 
for the Independent Payment Advisory Board.


                                 S. 319

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from 
Michigan (Mr. Peters) and the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 319, a bill to amend title 38, United States 
Code, to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish within 
the Department of Veterans Affairs a center of excellence in the 
prevention, diagnosis, mitigation, treatment, and rehabilitation of 
health conditions relating to exposure to burn pits.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 322, a bill 
to protect victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and 
dating violence from emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts 
of violence or threats of violence against their pets.


                                 S. 339

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the names of the Senator from 
Washington (Ms. Cantwell) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Booker) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 339, a bill to amend title 10, United 
States Code, to repeal the requirement for reduction of survivor 
annuities under the Survivor Benefit Plan by veterans' dependency and 
indemnity compensation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to 
amend the Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving 
through the mail shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection and to require the provision of advance electronic 
information on shipments of mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection 
and for other purposes.

[[Page S2617]]

  



                                 S. 379

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr) was added as a cosponsor of S. 379, a bill to amend 
title II of the Social Security Act to eliminate the five month waiting 
period for disability insurance benefits under such title for 
individuals with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.


                                 S. 384

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 384, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the new 
markets tax credit, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 393

  At the request of Mr. Scott, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 393, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow employers a credit 
against income tax for employees who participate in qualified 
apprenticeship programs.


                                 S. 404

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 404, a bill to amend the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to improve the process for 
inspections of device establishments for granting export 
certifications.
  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 404, supra.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 407, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the railroad track 
maintenance credit.


                                 S. 428

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 428, a bill to amend titles 
XIX and XXI of the Social Security Act to authorize States to provide 
coordinated care to children with complex medical conditions through 
enhanced pediatric health homes, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Portman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 445, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure more timely access to home 
health services for Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 486

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr) was added as a cosponsor of S. 486, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for the non-
application of Medicare competitive acquisition rates to complex 
rehabilitative wheelchairs and accessories.


                                 S. 538

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from 
Washington (Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 538, a bill to 
clarify research and development for wood products, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 540, a bill to limit the 
authority of States to tax certain income of employees for employment 
duties performed in other States.


                                 S. 623

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 623, a bill to 
enhance the transparency and accelerate the impact of assistance 
provided under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to promote quality 
basic education in developing countries, to better enable such 
countries to achieve universal access to quality basic education and 
improved learning outcomes, to eliminate duplication and waste, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 652

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 652, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to reauthorize a program for early detection, 
diagnosis, and treatment regarding deaf and hard-of-hearing newborns, 
infants, and young children.
  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 652, supra.


                                 S. 708

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the names of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin), the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) and the 
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added as cosponsors of S. 
708, a bill to improve the ability of U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection to interdict fentanyl, other synthetic opioids, and other 
narcotics and psychoactive substances that are illegally imported into 
the United States, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 736

  At the request of Mr. Enzi, the name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr. 
Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 736, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for collegiate housing and 
infrastructure grants.


                                 S. 750

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 750, a bill to prohibit 
drilling in the outer Continental Shelf, to prohibit coal leases on 
Federal land, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 751

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the names of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) and the Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. Capito) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 751, a bill to amend title 54, United 
States Code, to establish, fund, and provide for the use of amounts in 
a National Park Service Legacy Restoration Fund to address the 
maintenance backlog of the National Park Service, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 794

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 794, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act in order to improve the process 
whereby Medicare administrative contractors issue local coverage 
determinations under the Medicare program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 829

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 829, a bill to reauthorize 
the Assistance to Firefighters Grants program, the Fire Prevention and 
Safety Grants program, and the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency 
Response grant program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 849

  At the request of Mr. King, the names of the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mr. Alexander) and the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 849, a bill to support programs for mosquito-borne and 
other vector-borne disease surveillance and control.


                                 S. 856

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the names of the Senator from 
Michigan (Mr. Peters), the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) and the 
Senator from Nevada (Ms. Cortez Masto) were added as cosponsors of S. 
856, a bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 and the Jeanne 
Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics 
Act to combat campus sexual assault, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 858

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the names of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Menendez), the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) and 
the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) were added as cosponsors of 
S. 858, a bill to provide protection for survivors of domestic violence 
or sexual assault under the Fair Housing Act.


                                 S. 900

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 900, a bill to improve 
the Federal Pell Grant program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 914

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 914, a bill to 
improve and coordinate interagency Federal actions

[[Page S2618]]

and provide assistance to States for responding to public health 
challenges posed by emerging contaminants, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 916

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the names of the Senator from 
Tennessee (Mr. Alexander) and the Senator from Alaska (Ms. Murkowski) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 916, a bill to amend the Controlled 
Substances Act with regard to the provision of emergency medical 
services.


                                 S. 918

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 918, a bill to amend title 
31, United States Code, to provide for automatic continuing 
resolutions.


                              S.J. RES. 16

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. 
Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 16, a joint resolution 
approving the discontinuation of the process for consideration and 
automatic implementation of the annual proposal of the Independent 
Medicare Advisory Board under section 1899A of the Social Security Act.


                            S. CON. RES. 12

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from 
Michigan (Mr. Peters), the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) and the 
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added as cosponsors of S. 
Con. Res. 12, a concurrent resolution expressing the sense of Congress 
that those who served in the bays, harbors, and territorial seas of the 
Republic of Vietnam during the period beginning on January 9, 1962, and 
ending on May 7, 1975, should be presumed to have served in the 
Republic of Vietnam for all purposes under the Agent Orange Act of 
1991.


                               S. RES. 60

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 60, a 
resolution designating May 5, 2017, as the ``National Day of Awareness 
for Missing and Murdered Native Women and Girls''.


                              S. RES. 106

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 106, a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate to support the territorial integrity 
of Georgia.


                              S. RES. 108

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 108, a resolution 
reaffirming the commitment of the United States to the United States-
Egypt partnership.


                              S. RES. 136

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio), the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Gardner), the Senator from 
Oregon (Mr. Wyden) and the Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) were 
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 136, a resolution expressing the sense 
of the Senate regarding the 102nd anniversary of the Armenian Genocide.

                          ____________________



