

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 79 (Monday, May 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 79 (Monday, May 8, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2801-S2802]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 44

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 44, a bill to amend the 
Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to improve nonretaliation provisions 
relating to equal pay requirements.


                                 S. 175

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from 
California (Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 175, a bill to 
amend the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to 
transfer certain funds to the Multiemployer Health Benefit Plan and the 
1974 United Mine Workers of America Pension Plan, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 200

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 200, a bill to prohibit the conduct of a first-use 
nuclear strike absent a declaration of war by Congress.


                                 S. 352

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 352, a bill to award a 
Congressional Gold Medal to Master Sergeant Rodrick ``Roddie'' Edmonds 
in recognition of his heroic actions during World War II.


                                 S. 374

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 374, a bill to enable 
concrete masonry products manufacturers to establish, finance, and 
carry out a coordinated program of research, education, and promotion 
to improve, maintain, and develop markets for concrete masonry 
products.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the names of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) and the Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 407, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
to permanently extend the railroad track maintenance credit.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) and the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 445, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to ensure more timely access to home health services for 
Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 500

  At the request of Mr. Roberts, the name of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 500, a bill to amend the 
Homeland Security Act of 2002 to make the Assistant Secretary of 
Homeland Security for Health Affairs responsible for coordinating the 
efforts of the Department of Homeland Security related to food, 
agriculture, and veterinary defense against terrorism, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 504

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 504, a bill to permanently 
authorize the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel Card 
Program.


                                 S. 527

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 527, a bill to improve 
access to emergency medical services, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 534

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from Utah 
(Mr. Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 534, a bill to prevent the 
sexual abuse of minors and amateur athletes by requiring the prompt 
reporting of sexual abuse to law enforcement authorities, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the names of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 540, a bill to limit the authority of States to tax 
certain income of employees for employment duties performed in other 
States.


                                 S. 563

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. 563, a bill to amend the 
Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 to require that certain buildings 
and personal property be covered by flood insurance, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 569

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 569, a bill 
to amend title 54, United States Code, to provide consistent and 
reliable authority for, and for the funding of, the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund to maximize the effectiveness of the Fund for future 
generations, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 573

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 573, a bill to 
establish the National Criminal Justice Commission.


                                 S. 623

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 623, a bill 
to enhance the transparency and accelerate the impact of assistance 
provided under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to promote quality 
basic education in developing countries, to better enable such 
countries to achieve universal access to quality basic education and 
improved learning outcomes, to eliminate duplication and waste, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 708

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) and the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. 
Klobuchar) were added as cosponsors of S. 708, a bill to improve the 
ability of U.S. Customs and Border Protection to interdict fentanyl, 
other synthetic opioids, and other narcotics and psychoactive 
substances that are illegally imported into

[[Page S2802]]

the United States, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 720, a bill to 
amend the Export Administration Act of 1979 to include in the 
prohibitions on boycotts against allies of the United States boycotts 
fostered by international governmental organizations against Israel and 
to direct the Export-Import Bank of the United States to oppose 
boycotts against Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 722

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the names of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. Flake), the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Cassidy) and the Senator 
from Iowa (Mrs. Ernst) were added as cosponsors of S. 722, a bill to 
impose sanctions with respect to Iran in relation to Iran's ballistic 
missile program, support for acts of international terrorism, and 
violations of human rights, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 772

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) was added as a cosponsor of S. 772, a bill to 
amend the PROTECT Act to make Indian tribes eligible for AMBER Alert 
grants.


                                 S. 881

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 881, a bill 
to reduce risks to the financial system by limiting banks' ability to 
engage in certain risky activities and limiting conflicts of interest, 
to reinstate certain Glass-Steagall Act protections that were repealed 
by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 896

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) was added as a cosponsor of S. 896, a bill to 
permanently reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund.


                                 S. 907

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 907, a bill to authorize 
the modification of the Second Division Memorial, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 976

  At the request of Mr. Enzi, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 976, a bill to 
restore States' sovereign rights to enforce State and local sales and 
use tax laws, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 980

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 980, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for payments for certain 
rural health clinic and Federally qualified health center services 
furnished to hospice patients under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 992

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 992, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to conduct an independent review of the 
deaths of certain veterans by suicide, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1008

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the names of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) and the Senator from South Carolina (Mr. Graham) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1008, a bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act 
to exclude cannabidiol and cannabidiol-rich plants from the definition 
of marihuana, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1035

  At the request of Mr. Heinrich, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1035, a bill to 
amend the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 with respect 
to the scope of employee pension benefit plans.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Ms. Duckworth, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1050, a bill to award a 
Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the Chinese-American 
Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated service 
during World War II.


                            S. CON. RES. 12

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 12, 
a concurrent resolution expressing the sense of Congress that those who 
served in the bays, harbors, and territorial seas of the Republic of 
Vietnam during the period beginning on January 9, 1962, and ending on 
May 7, 1975, should be presumed to have served in the Republic of 
Vietnam for all purposes under the Agent Orange Act of 1991.


                              S. RES. 106

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Cotton) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 106, a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate to support the territorial integrity 
of Georgia.


                              S. RES. 109

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 109, a resolution 
encouraging the Government of Pakistan to release Aasiya Noreen, 
internationally known as Asia Bibi, and reform its religiously 
intolerant laws regarding blasphemy.


                              S. RES. 136

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 136, a 
resolution expressing the sense of the Senate regarding the 102nd 
anniversary of the Armenian Genocide.


                              S. RES. 155

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. Schumer), the Senator from Illinois (Mr. Durbin), the Senator from 
Delaware (Mr. Carper), the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), the 
Senator from Hawaii (Mr. Schatz) and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van 
Hollen) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 155, a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate that the United States should work 
in cooperation with the international community and continue to 
exercise global leadership to address the causes and effects of climate 
change, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



