

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 126 (Wednesday, July 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4300-S4301]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 223

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 223, a bill to 
provide immunity from suit for certain individuals who disclose 
potential examples of financial exploitation of senior citizens, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 298

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 298, a bill to require Senate 
candidates to file designations, statements, and reports in electronic 
form.


                                 S. 339

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 339, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to repeal the requirement for reduction of 
survivor annuities under the Survivor Benefit Plan by veterans' 
dependency and indemnity compensation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 364

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 364, a bill to amend the 
Food Security Act of 1985 to exempt certain recipients of Department of 
Agriculture conservation assistance from certain reporting 
requirements, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. 
Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 540, a bill to limit the 
authority of States to tax certain income of employees for employment 
duties performed in other States.


                                 S. 671

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 671, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to exclude from gross income certain amounts 
realized on the disposition of property raised or produced by a student 
farmer, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 711

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 711, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for S corporation reform, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 859

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 859, a bill to authorize 
the Director of the United States Geological Survey to conduct 
monitoring, assessment, science, and research, in support of the 
binational fisheries within the Great Lakes Basin, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 910

  At the request of Mr. Schumer, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 910, a bill to 
prohibit discrimination against individuals with disabilities who need 
long-term services and supports, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1172

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1172, a bill 
to impose sanctions with respect to foreign persons responsible for 
gross violations of internationally recognized human rights against 
lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) individuals, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1182

  At the request of Mr. Young, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1182, a bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
to mint commemorative coins in recognition of the 100th anniversary of 
The American Legion.


                                S. 1326

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1326, a bill to 
require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in recognition of 
American innovation and significant innovation and pioneering efforts 
of individuals or groups from each of the 50 States, the District of 
Columbia, and the United States territories, to promote the importance 
of innovation in the United States, the District of Columbia, and the 
United States territories, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1332

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1332, a bill to 
establish the Great Lakes Aquatic Connectivity and Infrastructure 
Program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1354

  At the request of Mr. Carper, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Heinrich) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1354, a bill to establish 
an Individual Market Reinsurance fund to provide funding for State 
individual market stabilization reinsurance programs.


                                S. 1425

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1425, a bill to 
reauthorize the Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System Act of 
2009, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1498

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Delaware

[[Page S4301]]

(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1498, a bill to establish in 
the Smithsonian Institution a comprehensive American women's history 
museum, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1591

  At the request of Mr. Van Hollen, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1591, a bill to impose 
sanctions with respect to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1595

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) and the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1595, a bill to amend the Hizballah International 
Financing Prevention Act of 2015 to impose additional sanctions with 
respect to Hizballah, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1598

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey), the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Van Hollen), 
the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin), the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) and the Senator 
from Washington (Ms. Cantwell) were added as cosponsors of S. 1598, a 
bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to make certain 
improvements in the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs, and for other purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the names of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. McCain) and the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1598, supra.


                                S. 1608

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the names of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn), the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman), the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1608, a bill to authorize the Capitol 
Police Board to make payments from the United States Capitol Police 
Memorial Fund to employees of the United States Capitol Police who have 
sustained serious line-of-duty injuries, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1615

  At the request of Ms. Cortez Masto, her name was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1615, a bill to authorize the cancellation of removal and 
adjustment of status of certain individuals who are long-term United 
States residents and who entered the United States as children and for 
other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 47

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Lee) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 47, a joint resolution 
providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, 
United States Code, of the rule submitted by Bureau of Consumer 
Financial Protection relating to ``Arbitration Agreements''.


                              S. RES. 162

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 162, a 
resolution reaffirming the commitment of the United States to promoting 
religious freedom, and for other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 268

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 
268 intended to be proposed to H.R. 1628, a bill to provide for 
reconciliation pursuant to title II of the concurrent resolution on the 
budget for fiscal year 2017.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 276

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the names of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Heinrich), the Senator from Maine (Mr. King) and the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 
276 intended to be proposed to H.R. 1628, a bill to provide for 
reconciliation pursuant to title II of the concurrent resolution on the 
budget for fiscal year 2017.

                          ____________________



