

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 110 (Tuesday, June 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 110 (Tuesday, June 27, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5206-H5207]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 ESTABLISHING A VISITOR SERVICES FACILITY ON THE ARLINGTON RIDGE TRACT

  Mr. COOK. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill 
(H.R. 1073) to authorize the Secretary of the Interior to establish a 
structure for visitor services on the Arlington Ridge tract, in the 
area of the U.S. Marine Corps War Memorial, and for other purposes.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 1073

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. DEFINITION.

       In this Act, the term ``Arlington Ridge tract'' means the 
     parcel of Federal land located in Arlington County, Virginia, 
     known as the Nevius Tract and transferred to the Department 
     of the Interior in 1953, that is bounded generally by--
       (1) Arlington Boulevard (United States Route 50) to the 
     north;
       (2) Jefferson Davis Highway (Virginia Route 110) to the 
     east;
       (3) Marshall Drive to the south; and
       (4) North Meade Street to the west.

     SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF A VISITOR SERVICES FACILITY ON THE 
                   ARLINGTON RIDGE TRACT.

       Notwithstanding section 2863(g) of Public Law 107-107, the 
     Secretary of the Interior is authorized to construct a 
     structure for visitor services to include a public restroom 
     facility on the Arlington Ridge tract in the area of the U.S. 
     Marine Corps War Memorial.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Cook) and the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Beyer) each 
will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.


                             General Leave

  Mr. COOK. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and include 
extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from California?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. COOK. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1073, brought to us by our Natural Resources 
Committee colleague Congressman Don Beyer of Virginia, authorizes the 
National Park Service to construct a visitor services center at the 
United States Marine Corps Memorial in Arlington, Virginia.
  The United States Marine Corps Memorial is one of the emblematic 
sites of our Nation's Capital. As a marine, the memorial is especially 
near and dear to my heart. It represents our Nation's gratitude and 
esteem for the Marines and those who have fought beside them.
  While the statue depicts the flag raising on Iwo Jima--one of the 
most iconic events in World War II--the memorial is dedicated to all 
marines who have given their lives in defense of the United States 
since 1775.
  Each year, the memorial attracts over 1 million visitors and hosts 
several popular events, including Summer Sunset Parades and the Marine 
Corps Marathon.
  Despite this popularity, the memorial lacks basic visitor services 
such as permanent restroom facilities. The bill before us authorizes 
the construction of a visitor services center that includes permanent 
restroom facilities, thus allowing those visiting our Nation's Capital 
to visit and appreciate this grand memorial with increased comfort.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the measure, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
  Mr. BEYER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, the bill before us today, H.R. 1073, authorizes the 
National Park Service to construct a visitor services facility that 
includes a restroom at the U.S. Marine Corps Memorial, also known as 
the Iwo Jima Memorial. The memorial is located in Arlington, Virginia, 
adjacent to Arlington National Cemetery, and a short drive from the 
Pentagon and from here.
  This iconic statue of marines raising the flag over Iwo Jima is one 
of the country's most recognized memorials--the most recognized 
memorial in the whole world--and receives a tremendous amount of 
visitation. Unfortunately, there are no permanent restroom facilities 
at the site. It goes without saying that this is a major hurdle to 
visitor comfort, especially given that this is a popular destination of 
our veterans, not all of whom are able-bodied.
  However, once this bill becomes law, the National Park Service will 
be able

[[Page H5207]]

to construct a restroom with funds that have already been donated for 
this purpose. This is in keeping with a broad policy of improving 
accessibility of all the memorials on and around The National Mall.
  This bill is a long time coming. I want to thank my bill cosponsors 
for their support, Mr. Cook of California and Mr. Graves of Louisiana.
  I understand that our good friends from the Park Service are watching 
with excitement and pleasure this afternoon as we take this up on the 
floor. I urge my colleagues to support this bill.
  I yield back the balance of my time.
  Mr. COOK. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from California (Mr. Cook) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 1073.
  The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the 
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
  A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

                          ____________________



