

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 109 (Monday, June 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 109 (Monday, June 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H5166]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




  WELCOMING THE HONORABLE RALPH NORMAN TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

  The SPEAKER. Without objection, the gentleman from South Carolina 
(Mr. Clyburn) is recognized for 1 minute.
  There was no objection.
  Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, it is my privilege, as dean of the South 
Carolina delegation, to introduce to this Chamber Representative Ralph 
Norman.
  Mr. Norman is from Rock Hill in York County, South Carolina. He is a 
real estate developer, a graduate of Presbyterian College, and 
previously served in the South Carolina Legislature. He and his wife, 
Elaine Rice Norman, have four children: Warren III, Caroline, Anne, and 
Mary Catherine.
  Last Tuesday, June 20, Mr. Norman won the special election in South 
Carolina's Fifth District to fill the vacancy created when former 
Congressman Mick Mulvaney became Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget.
  Now it is my pleasure to yield to the gentleman from South Carolina 
(Mr. Wilson), representing the Second Congressional District, for 
further introduction.
  Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, it is a great honor 
tonight to be here with Congressman Clyburn on a very extraordinary 
evening. To me, it is a dream come true.
  Eleven days ago, I had the opportunity--my wife, Roxanne, and I--to 
campaign across the Fifth Congressional District by bus. As we traveled 
the district with Ralph and Elaine Norman, I found out that his 
business background gives him the basis to understand how to create 
jobs. I saw his affection for our veterans and his understanding of the 
importance of a strong national defense. In particular, with Shaw Air 
Force Base in the district, he understands a strong national defense.
  It was so inspiring, also, to be with their four grown children who 
are each successful. And he has a real interest to be successful 
because he has 15 grandchildren. What an achievement. Members 
understand this is really important.
  For the past 7 years, I am really grateful that he has been a floor 
leader for Governor Nikki Haley, now our Ambassador to the United 
Nations, where he has been a floor leader for limited government and 
expanded freedom.
  It is with great honor I introduce to you Congressman Ralph Norman.
  Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from South 
Carolina (Mr. Norman).
  Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Speaker, members of my South Carolina Congressional 
delegation, it is an honor to be here. Let me have my family and 
friends stand. It is South Carolina's Brady Bunch. You all stand up 
there.
  It is a tremendous honor to serve with such an esteemed group. I 
think it is a special time in history. As Congressman Lewis said, we 
are family. With the shooting of Steve Scalise, we know that we are all 
Americans.
  We have got such an opportunity, and I look forward to playing a part 
in working with Members to move this country forward.

                          ____________________



