

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 75 (Tuesday, May 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 75 (Tuesday, May 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2680-S2681]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 54

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 54, a bill to prohibit the 
creation of an immigration-related registry program that classifies 
people on the basis of religion, race, age, gender, ethnicity, national 
origin, nationality, or citizenship.


                                 S. 66

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 66, a bill to amend 
title 10, United States Code, to permit certain retired members of the 
uniformed services who have a service-connected disability to receive 
both disability compensation from the Department of Veterans Affairs 
for their disability and either retired pay by reason of their years of 
military service or Combat-Related Special Compensation, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 139

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 139, a bill to implement 
the use of Rapid DNA instruments to inform decisions about pretrial 
release or detention and their conditions, to solve and prevent violent 
crimes and other crimes, to exonerate the innocent, to prevent DNA 
analysis backlogs, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 200

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 200, a bill to prohibit 
the conduct of a first-use nuclear strike absent a declaration of war 
by Congress.


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Heinrich) was added as a cosponsor of S. 236, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic 
beverages.


                                 S. 352

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 352, a bill to award a 
Congressional Gold Medal to Master Sergeant Rodrick ``Roddie'' Edmonds 
in recognition of his heroic actions during World War II.


                                 S. 482

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Barrasso) was added as a cosponsor of S. 482, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to treat certain amounts paid for 
physical activity, fitness, and exercise as amounts paid for medical 
care.


                                 S. 563

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Portman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 563, a bill to amend the Flood 
Disaster Protection Act of 1973 to require that certain buildings and 
personal property be covered by flood insurance, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 593

  At the request of Mr. Bennet, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Heinrich) was added as a cosponsor of S. 593, a bill to amend the 
Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to facilitate the 
establishment of additional or expanded public target ranges in certain 
States.


                                 S. 662

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the names of the Senator from New 
York (Mrs. Gillibrand), the Senator

[[Page S2681]]

from Delaware (Mr. Coons), the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), 
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy), the Senator from Minnesota (Mr. 
Franken) and the Senator from Hawaii (Mr. Schatz) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 662, a bill to provide incentives for hate crime 
reporting, grants for State-run hate crime hotlines, a Federal private 
right of action for victims of hate crimes, and additional penalties 
for individuals convicted under the Matthew Shephard and James Byrd, 
Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act.


                                 S. 682

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 682, a bill to amend title 
31, United States Code, to require the Secretary of the Treasury to 
provide for the purchase of paper United States savings bonds with tax 
refunds.


                                 S. 722

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 722, a bill to 
impose sanctions with respect to Iran in relation to Iran's ballistic 
missile program, support for acts of international terrorism, and 
violations of human rights, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 733

  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, the name of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Portman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 733, a bill to protect and 
enhance opportunities for recreational hunting, fishing, and shooting, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 766

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 766, a bill to 
amend titles 10 and 32, United States Code, to improve and enhance 
authorities relating to the employment, use, status, and benefits of 
military technicians (dual status), and for other purposes.


                                 S. 819

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 819, a bill to amend the 
Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to provide more effective remedies to 
victims of discrimination in the payment of wages on the basis of sex, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 978

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 978, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of Education to establish an award program recognizing 
excellence exhibited by public school system employees providing 
services to students in prekindergarten through higher education.


                                 S. 992

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the names of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) and the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Cassidy) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 992, a bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs to conduct an independent review of the deaths of certain 
veterans by suicide, and for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 40

  At the request of Mr. Murphy, the names of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) were added as 
cosponsors of S.J. Res. 40, a joint resolution to provide limitations 
on the transfer of air-to-ground munitions from the United States to 
Saudi Arabia.

                          ____________________



