

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3098-S3099]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 58

  At the request of Mr. Heinrich, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 58, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on high cost 
employer-sponsored health coverage.


                                 S. 59

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Lee) was added as a cosponsor of S. 59, a bill to provide that 
silencers be treated the same as long guns.


                                 S. 196

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 196, a bill to provide for a 
Public Health Emergency Fund, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 203

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 203, a bill to reaffirm that 
the Environmental Protection Agency may not regulate vehicles used 
solely for competition, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 322, a bill to 
protect victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and 
dating violence from emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts 
of violence or threats of violence against their pets.


                                 S. 374

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 374, a bill to enable 
concrete masonry products manufacturers to establish, finance, and 
carry out a coordinated program of research, education, and promotion 
to improve, maintain, and develop markets for concrete masonry 
products.


                                 S. 379

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the names of the Senator from 
Nevada (Ms. Cortez Masto) and the Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. 
Capito) were added as cosponsors of S. 379, a bill to amend title II of 
the Social Security Act to eliminate the five month waiting period for 
disability insurance benefits under such title for individuals with 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 407, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the 
railroad track maintenance credit.


                                 S. 470

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 470, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to enhance the Child and Dependent Care 
Tax Credit and make the credit fully refundable.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under Medicare 
for colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether 
therapeutic intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 602

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 602, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to include automated fire 
sprinkler system retrofits as section 179 property and classify certain 
automated fire sprinkler system retrofits as 15-year property for 
purposes of depreciation.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 720, a bill to amend the 
Export Administration Act of 1979 to include in the prohibitions on 
boycotts against allies of the United States boycotts fostered by 
international governmental organizations against Israel and to direct 
the Export-Import Bank of the United States to oppose boycotts against 
Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 722

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 722, a bill to impose 
sanctions with respect to Iran in relation to Iran's ballistic missile 
program, support for acts of international terrorism, and violations of 
human rights, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 778

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 778, a bill to 
require the use of prescription drug monitoring programs and to 
facilitate information sharing among States.


                                 S. 782

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 782, a bill to reauthorize 
the National Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force Program, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 798

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 798, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to expand the Yellow Ribbon G.I. 
Education Enhancement Program to apply to individuals pursuing programs 
of education while on active duty, to recipients of the Marine Gunnery 
Sergeant John David Fry scholarship, and to programs of education 
pursued on half-time basis or less, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 829

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 829, a bill to 
reauthorize the Assistance to Firefighters Grants program, the Fire 
Prevention and Safety Grants program, and the Staffing for Adequate 
Fire and Emergency Response grant program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 896

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 896, a bill to permanently 
reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund.


                                 S. 912

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 912, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to establish a free on-line tax 
preparation and filing service and programs that allow taxpayers to 
access third-party provided tax return information.


                                 S. 926

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 926, a bill to authorize 
the Global War on Terror Memorial Foundation to establish the National 
Global War on Terrorism Memorial as a commemorative work in the 
District of Columbia, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 976

  At the request of Mr. Enzi, the names of the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mr. Corker) and the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 976, a bill to restore States' sovereign rights to 
enforce State and local sales and use tax laws, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 989

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the names of the Senator from New York

[[Page S3099]]

(Mrs. Gillibrand) and the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 989, a bill to amend the Public Health 
Service Act to provide for the participation of pediatric 
subspecialists in the National Health Service Corps program, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1016

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1016, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to expand access to 
telehealth services, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1073

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1073, a bill to authorize 
Escambia County, Florida, to convey certain property that was formerly 
part of Santa Rosa Island National Monument and that was conveyed to 
Escambia County subject to restrictions on use and reconveyance.


                                S. 1094

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) and the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1094, a bill to amend title 38, United States Code, 
to improve the accountability of employees of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1113

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1113, a bill 
to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to ensure the safety 
of cosmetics.


                                S. 1126

  At the request of Mr. Strange, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Mr. Johnson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1126, a bill to prohibit 
certain Federal funds from being available to sanctuary jurisdictions 
that refuse to cooperate with the Federal Government on immigration 
matters or retaliate against border security contractors, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1136

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1136, a bill to improve the 
structure of the Federal Pell Grant program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1158

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1158, a bill to 
help prevent acts of genocide and other atrocity crimes, which threaten 
national and international security, by enhancing United States 
Government capacities to prevent, mitigate, and respond to such crises.


                                S. 1182

  At the request of Mr. Young, the names of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Crapo) and the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Risch) were added as cosponsors 
of S. 1182, a bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint 
commemorative coins in recognition of the 100th anniversary of The 
American Legion.


                              S. RES. 106

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 106, a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate to support the territorial integrity 
of Georgia.

                          ____________________



