

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 124 (Monday, July 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 124 (Monday, July 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4136-S4137]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 59

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 59, a bill to provide that 
silencers be treated the same as long guns.


                                 S. 170

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 170, a bill to provide for 
nonpreemption of measures by State and local governments to divest from 
entities that engage in commerce-related or investment-related boycott, 
divestment, or sanctions activities targeting Israel, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 298

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 298, a bill to require Senate candidates to 
file designations, statements, and reports in electronic form.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to 
amend the Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving 
through the mail shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection and to require the provision of advance electronic 
information on shipments of mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 407, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the railroad track 
maintenance credit.


                                 S. 474

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the names of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Risch) and the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 474, a bill to condition assistance to the West Bank 
and Gaza on steps by the Palestinian Authority to end violence and 
terrorism against Israeli citizens.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage of 
certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of durable 
medical equipment.


                                 S. 642

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 642, a bill to restore the 
integrity of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United 
States, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 693

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) and the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 693, a bill to amend the Public Health 
Service Act to increase the number of permanent faculty in palliative 
care at accredited allopathic and osteopathic medical schools, nursing 
schools, social work schools, and other programs, including physician 
assistant education programs, to promote education and research in 
palliative care and hospice, and to support the development of faculty 
careers in academic palliative medicine.


                                 S. 860

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 860, a bill to 
reauthorize and improve the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention 
Act of 1974, and for other purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 860, supra.


                                 S. 980

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the names of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) and the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Sanders) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 980, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to provide for payments for certain rural health clinic 
and Federally qualified health center services furnished to hospice 
patients under the Medicare program.


                                S. 1002

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Barrasso) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1002, a bill to enhance 
the ability of community financial institutions to foster economic 
growth and serve their communities, boost small businesses, increase 
individual savings, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1014

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the names of the Senator from 
Louisiana

[[Page S4137]]

(Mr. Kennedy) and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1014, a bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs to make grants to eligible organizations to provide service 
dogs to veterans with severe post-traumatic stress disorder, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1024

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1024, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to reform the rights and processes 
relating to appeals of decisions regarding claims for benefits under 
the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1182

  At the request of Mr. Young, the names of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons), the Senator 
from New Mexico (Mr. Heinrich), the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. 
Reed), the Senator from California (Ms. Harris) and the Senator from 
Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) were added as cosponsors of S. 1182, a bill to 
require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint commemorative coins in 
recognition of the 100th anniversary of The American Legion.


                                S. 1311

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1311, a bill to provide 
assistance in abolishing human trafficking in the United States.


                                S. 1343

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1343, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code to extend and modify certain charitable tax 
provisions.


                                S. 1353

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1353, a bill to require 
States to automatically register eligible voters to vote in elections 
for Federal offices, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1453

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1453, a bill 
to allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services to designate 
certain substance use disorder treatment facilities as eligible for 
National Health Service Corps service.


                                S. 1520

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1520, a bill to expand 
recreational fishing opportunities through enhanced marine fishery 
conservation and management, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1562

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1562, a bill to impose 
sanctions with respect to the Government of the Democratic People's 
Republic of Korea and any enablers of the activities of that 
Government, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1564

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1564, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permit legally married same-sex 
couples to amend their filing status for returns outside the 3-year 
limitation.


                                S. 1595

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Crapo) and the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1595, a bill to amend the Hizballah International 
Financing Prevention Act of 2015 to impose additional sanctions with 
respect to Hizballah, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1598

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the names of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) and the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1598, a bill to amend title 38, United States Code, 
to make certain improvements in the laws administered by the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1615

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1615, a bill to 
authorize the cancellation of removal and adjustment of status of 
certain individuals who are long-term United States residents and who 
entered the United States as children and for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 17

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 17, a joint 
resolution approving the discontinuation of the process for 
consideration and automatic implementation of the annual proposal of 
the Independent Medicare Advisory Board under section 1899A of the 
Social Security Act.


                              S.J. RES. 47

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the names of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) and the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) were added as 
cosponsors of S.J. Res. 47, a joint resolution providing for 
congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States 
Code, of the rule submitted by Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection 
relating to ``Arbitration Agreements''.


                             S. CON. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 6, a 
concurrent resolution supporting the Local Radio Freedom Act.


                               S. RES. 75

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) and the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Donnelly) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 75, a resolution recognizing the 100th 
anniversary of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, the largest 
organization of food and nutrition professionals in the world.

                          ____________________



