

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 71 (Wednesday, April 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 71 (Wednesday, April 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2851-H2852]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




       PHILLIP AND PATRICIA FROST MUSEUM OF SCIENCE GRAND OPENING

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Florida (Ms. Ros-Lehtinen) for 5 minutes.
  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I would like to recognize the Phillip 
and Patricia Frost Museum of Science for the opening of its new 
location in downtown Miami in my congressional district on May 8. From 
its humble beginnings in 1950 as the Junior Museum of Miami, the Frost 
Museum has enjoyed tremendous success becoming the premier educational 
attraction for families and children across south Florida.
  The nationally recognized afterschool programs and summer camps 
offered at the Frost Museum of Science have provided generations of 
students the firsthand opportunity to explore science, technology, 
marine life, and astronomy, undoubtedly contributing to south Florida 
students' immense interest in STEM careers.
  The new location in downtown Miami will provide state-of-the-art 
facilities and expand the interactive exhibits and demonstrations that 
keep patrons of the Frost Museum of Science returning year after year.
  I would like to invite all of south Florida to come out to the new 
Phillip and Patricia Frost Museum of Science on May 8 to celebrate the 
grand opening of this magnificent new facility.


  Recognizing Our Lady of Lourdes Academy and St. Thomas the Apostle 
                            Catholic School

  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I would like to recognize two 
extraordinary schools from my district, Our Lady of Lourdes Academy and 
St. Thomas the Apostle Catholic School, which have been selected 
regional winners for the Toshiba 2017 ExploraVision competition.
  Their award-winning projects included a unique system for detecting 
blood clots through the use of sonar, synthetic photosynthesis, and an 
app to assist individuals with food allergies.
  These innovative projects not only demonstrate our students' interest 
in STEM careers but a greater dedication to create solutions to the 
problems of today and tomorrow.
  Mr. Speaker, congratulations to the participants from Our Lady of 
Lourdes Academy and St. Thomas the Apostle Catholic School because this 
latest accomplishment further demonstrates the commitment that students 
in my district have toward making a better future for all.
  Congratulations to the winners at Lourdes and St. Thomas for the 
Toshiba 2017 ExploraVision competition.


                      Recognizing DMR Corporation

  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I would like to recognize DMR 
Corporation, which is opening a new medical supply retail store this 
Friday in my congressional district.
  Since its start in 1984, DMR has been working to meet the rising and 
challenging needs of the disabled community in south Florida and around 
the world. DMR counts with highly trained staff and with the tools 
necessary to build appropriate mobility and seating equipment, make 
accessible home and vehicle modifications, and install pool lifts for 
recreational activities.

[[Page H2852]]

  It is thanks to the vision of the founder, Nella Pardo, and her 
commitment of service to others that DMR has thrived and has given 
nearly 12,000 clients the possibilities of better mobility that only a 
unique, custom-built wheelchair can offer.
  DMR has contributed so many thousands of free wheelchairs to the 
needy disabled in south Florida, and it participates in many events to 
raise funds that will enable disabled individuals to have the 
mobility equipment they desperately need. Congrats to all.


                  Congratulating Williamson Automotive

  Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I would like to congratulate 
Williamson Automotive on its significant milestone of 50 years of a 
highly successful and award-winning dealership.
  Williamson Automotive does more than just create jobs and spur the 
economy of our community, as important as those are, but it has also 
engaged in various philanthropic ventures to best serve south Florida.
  From their work contributing to Habitat for Humanity of Greater Miami 
to supporting a number of high school sports teams and sponsoring 
events for Relay For Life, Williamson Automotive never ceases to go 
above and beyond for south Florida.
  Mr. Speaker, Williamson Automotive embodies what many homegrown 
businesses should, a passion for what you do and the ability to serve 
your community broadly, and they do just that.
  I know that our community joins me in thanking Ed, Carol, and Trae 
Williamson and their staff for all that they have done and will 
continue to do to make our tropical paradise an even better place.
  Once again, congratulations to Williamson Automotive on celebrating 
50 years, and I wish you all the best and many more years of service to 
south Florida.

                          ____________________



