

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 109 (Monday, June 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 109 (Monday, June 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3765]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mrs. ERNST (for herself, Mr. Rubio, and Mr. Perdue):
       S. 1427. A bill to provide States with the option of 
     applying for and receiving temporary waivers for the States 
     to experiment with new approaches that integrate Federal 
     programs in order to provide more coordinated and holistic 
     solutions to families in need, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. RISCH (for himself, Mr. Peters, Mr. Kennedy, Ms. 
             Duckworth, and Mrs. Shaheen):
       S. 1428. A bill to amend section 21 of the Small Business 
     Act to require cyber certification for small business 
     development center counselors, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 1429. A bill to amend the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act to reauthorize the Chesapeake Bay Program; to the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. Carper, Mr. Warner, Mr. 
             Coons, Mr. Kaine, and Mr. Van Hollen):
       S. 1430. A bill to amend the Chesapeake Bay Initiative Act 
     of 1998 to reauthorize the Chesapeake Bay Gateways and 
     Watertrails Network; to the Committee on Environment and 
     Public Works.
           By Mr. INHOFE (for himself, Mr. King, and Mr. Rounds):
       S. 1431. A bill to provide liability protection for 
     volunteer pilots who fly for the public benefit, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. INHOFE (for himself and Mr. Moran):
       S. 1432. A bill to prevent the Federal Aviation 
     Administration's Aircraft Registry Office from closing during 
     a Government shutdown; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
     and Transportation.
           By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Ms. Murkowski, and Ms. 
             Cantwell):
       S. 1433. A bill to approve the 2010 Compact Review 
     Agreement with Palau, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and Mr. Cotton):
       S. 1434. A bill to enhance the military childcare programs 
     and activities of the Department of Defense, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. COTTON:
       S. 1435. A bill to provide an amnesty period during which 
     veterans and their family members can register certain 
     firearms in the National Firearm Registration and Transfer 
     Record, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. CRAPO (for himself and Mr. Cardin):
       S. 1436. A bill to conserve fish and aquatic communities in 
     the United States through partnerships that foster fish 
     habitat conservation, improve the quality of life for the 
     people of the United States, enhance fish and wildlife-
     dependent recreation, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. 
             Cardin, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Markey, Mr. Coons, Mr. Van 
             Hollen, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Brown, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, and Mr. Sanders):
       S. 1437. A bill to modernize voter registration, promote 
     access to voting for individuals with disabilities, protect 
     the ability of individuals to exercise the right to vote in 
     elections for Federal office, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Rules and Administration.
           By Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Mrs. McCaskill):
       S. 1438. A bill to redesignate the Jefferson National 
     Expansion Memorial in the State of Missouri as the ``Gateway 
     Arch National Park''; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Ms. WARREN:
       S. 1439. A bill to require the Secretary of Defense to 
     include gambling disorder in health assessments for members 
     of the Armed Forces and related research efforts of the 
     Department of Defense; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Ms. WARREN:
       S. 1440. A bill to ensure the safety of workers of 
     contractors that serve and supply the Armed Forces and the 
     accountable use of taxpayer dollars; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mr. SANDERS (for himself, Ms. Warren, and Ms. 
             Harris):
       S. 1441. A bill to provide funding for Federally Qualified 
     Health Centers, the National Health Service Corps, Teaching 
     Health Centers, and the Nurse Practitioner Residency Training 
     program; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN:
       S. 1442. A bill to establish United States policy for the 
     Arctic region for the next 10 years, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.

                          ____________________



