

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 106 (Wednesday, June 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 106 (Wednesday, June 21, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3683]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE

  At 12:02 p.m., a message from the House of Representatives, delivered 
by Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, announced that the House has 
passed the following bills, in which it requests the concurrence of the 
Senate:

       H.R. 625. An act to provide for joint reports by relevant 
     Federal agencies to Congress regarding incidents of 
     terrorism, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 1393. An act to limit the authority of States to tax 
     certain income of employees for employment duties performed 
     in other States.
       H.R. 1551. An act to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to modify the credit for production from advanced 
     nuclear power facilities.
       H.R. 2132. An act to require the implementation of a 
     redress process and review of the Transportation Security 
     Administration's intelligence-based screening rules for 
     aviation security, and for other purposes.
       H.R. 2190. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to direct the Under Secretary for Management of the 
     Department of Homeland Security to make certain improvements 
     in managing the Department's real property portfolio, and for 
     other purposes.
       H.R. 2283. An act to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to improve morale within the Department of Homeland 
     Security workforce by conferring new responsibilities to the 
     Chief Human Capital Officer, establishing an employee 
     engagement steering committee, requiring action plans, and 
     authorizing an annual employee award program, and for other 
     purposes.
       H.R. 2484. An act to ensure that the United States promotes 
     the meaningful participation of women in mediation and 
     negotiation processes seeking to prevent, mitigate, or 
     resolve violent conflict.
       H.R. 2742. An act to amend title IV of the Social Security 
     Act to require States to adopt an electronic system to help 
     expedite the placement of children in foster care or 
     guardianship, or for adoption, across State lines, and to 
     provide funding to aid States in developing such a system, 
     and for other purposes.
       H.R. 2834. An act to improve the well-being of, and improve 
     permanency outcomes for, children and families affected by 
     heroin, opioids, and other substance abuse.
       H.R. 2847. An act to make improvements to the John H. 
     Chafee Foster Care Independence Program and related 
     provisions.
       H.R. 2857. An act to support foster care maintenance 
     payments for children with parents in a licensed residential 
     family-based treatment facility for substance abuse.
       H.R. 2866. An act to review and improve licensing standards 
     for placement in a relative foster family home.

  The message also announced that the House agreed to the amendments of 
the Senate to the bill (H.R. 1238) to amend the Homeland Security Act 
of 2002 to make the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security for Health 
Affairs responsible for coordinating the efforts of the Department of 
Homeland Security related to food, agriculture, and veterinary defense 
against terrorism, and for other purposes.


                          Enrolled Bill Signed

  At 5:00 p.m., a message from the House of Representatives, delivered 
by Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, announced that the Speaker has 
signed the following enrolled bill:

       S. 1094. An act to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the accountability of employees of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



