

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3363-S3364]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 112

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 112, a bill 
to amend title 38, United States Code, to authorize per diem payments 
under comprehensive service programs for homeless veterans to furnish 
care to dependents of homeless veterans, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 242

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 242, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to permit veterans to grant access to their records 
in the databases of the Veterans Benefits Administration to certain 
designated congressional employees, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, a bill 
to award the Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of 
his heroic achievements and courageous contributions to peace in the 
Middle East.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Heinrich) was added as a cosponsor of S. 407, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the railroad track 
maintenance credit.


                                 S. 425

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 425, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to improve the historic rehabilitation tax credit, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 479, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under 
Medicare for colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether 
therapeutic intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 543

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 543, a bill 
to amend title 38, United States Code, to require the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to include in each contract into which the Secretary 
enters for necessary services authorities and mechanism for appropriate 
oversight, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 563

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 563, a bill to 
amend the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 to require that certain 
buildings and personal property be covered by flood insurance, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 593

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 593, a bill to amend the Pittman-
Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to facilitate the establishment of 
additional or expanded public target ranges in certain States.


                                 S. 623

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 623, a bill to enhance the 
transparency and accelerate the impact of assistance provided under the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to promote quality basic education in 
developing countries, to better enable such countries to achieve 
universal access to quality basic education and improved learning 
outcomes, to eliminate duplication and waste, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 655

  At the request of Mr. Risch, the name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 655, a bill to exempt 
certain 16- and 17-year-old individuals employed in logging operations 
from child labor laws.


                                 S. 670

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 670, a bill to provide 
for the regulation of over-the-counter hearing aids.


                                 S. 700

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 700, a bill 
to improve the reproductive assistance provided by the Department of 
Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs to severely wounded, 
ill, or injured members of the Armed Forces, veterans, and their 
spouses or partners, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 760

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 760, a bill to expand the 
Government's use and administration of data to facilitate transparency, 
effective governance, and innovation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 782

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) and the Senator from Texas (Mr. Cruz) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 782, a bill to reauthorize the National Internet 
Crimes Against Children Task Force Program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 804

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 804, a bill 
to improve the provision of health care for women veterans by the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 808

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. 808, a bill to provide 
protections for certain sports medicine professionals who provide 
certain medical services in a secondary State.


                                 S. 896

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr. 
Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 896, a bill to permanently 
reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund.


                                 S. 926

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 926, a bill 
to authorize the Global War on Terror Memorial Foundation to establish 
the National Global War on Terrorism Memorial as a commemorative work 
in the District of Columbia, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 948

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 948, a bill to designate 
as wilderness certain Federal portions of the red rock canyons of the 
Colorado Plateau and the Great Basin Deserts in the State of Utah for 
the benefit of present and future generations of people in the United 
States.


                                S. 1015

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr. 
Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1015, a bill to require the 
Federal Communications Commission to study the feasibility of 
designating a simple, easy-to-remember dialing code to be used for a 
national suicide prevention and mental health crisis hotline system.


                                S. 1038

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1038, a bill to require the 
Administrator of the Small Business Administration to submit to 
Congress a report on the utilization of small businesses with respect 
to certain Federal contracts.


                                S. 1151

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.

[[Page S3364]]

King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1151, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to provide a nonrefundable credit for working 
family caregivers.


                                S. 1169

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1169, a bill to 
amend title XIX of the Social Security Act to provide States with an 
option to provide medical assistance to individuals between the ages of 
22 and 64 for inpatient services to treat substance use disorders at 
certain facilities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1202

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1202, a bill to modify the 
boundary of the Little Rock Central High School National Historic Site, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1277

  At the request of Mr. Boozman, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1277, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out a high technology education 
pilot program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1309

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from 
Washington (Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1309, a bill to 
amend title II of the Social Security Act to permit American Indian 
tribal councils to enter into agreements with the Commissioner of 
Social Security to obtain social security coverage for services 
performed by tribal council members.


                               S. RES. 54

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 54, a 
resolution expressing the unwavering commitment of the United States to 
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.

                          ____________________



