

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 100 (Tuesday, June 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 100 (Tuesday, June 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4862]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




      CONGRATULATIONS TO THE ST. CLOUD AREA ADAPTED SOFTBALL TEAM

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Minnesota (Mr. Emmer) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the St. Cloud 
Area adapted softball team for winning the State championship earlier 
this month.
  Coach Mike Bakken led the team to victory with the help of Tyrell 
Franck-Ross, Dayton Wienjes, and Jordan Williams, who all played 
exceptionally well. While the individual accomplishments were 
important, it was a team effort, with all 16 players giving it their 
all and leaving everything they had on the field.
  The tournament was intense, with St. Cloud coming from behind to win 
the first game. St. Cloud scored five runs in the top of the seventh to 
beat Chaska 17-14.
  We are proud of all the players from around the State for their 
effort in the tournament, and we are especially proud of our St. Cloud 
Area team for their success and their hard work over this past season.


                         Young Leaders in STEM

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize two high school 
students from my district for being chosen to represent the great State 
of Minnesota in two prestigious science, technology, engineering, and 
math, more commonly called STEM-based, programs.
  Alex Nutt, of Princeton High School, has been selected to participate 
in the Congress of Future Medical Leaders; and Michael Dehmer, of 
Buffalo High School, has been selected to participate in the Congress 
of Future Science and Technology Leaders.
  These programs were specifically designed to inspire high school 
students who are at the top of their class and hope to pursue a 
science-based career. Once they have successfully completed their 
congress, Alex and Michael will continue to receive mentoring to help 
them successfully pursue their chosen careers.
  The career paths that Alex Nutt and Michael Dehmer have chosen to 
pursue are not easy, but they are incredibly important to our country. 
In order for our Nation to remain both competitive and successful, it 
is vital that today's students take an active interest in STEM fields. 
That is why I am proud to honor both Alex and Michael and to thank the 
National Academy of Future Physicians and Medical Scientists and the 
National Academy of Future Scientists and Technologists for working to 
ensure that the future of our Nation is bright.


                           Minnesota's Future

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate all the recent 
high school graduates in Minnesota's Sixth Congressional District on 
completing a major milestone in their young lives.
  This milestone represents the beginning of the rest of your lives. 
And while we celebrate your achievement, we are also excited for your 
future, and there is so much to be excited about.
  Many of you will go on to further your careers in education, travel 
and see the world. Some of you might go to medical school, and one of 
you might actually cure a disease. Some of you might run for public 
office, and one of you might even become the President of the United 
States.
  You will be active in your communities. You will build families and 
be incredible assets to the great State of Minnesota. Your 
possibilities are limitless, and I hope you will always think big and 
never give up on your dreams.
  We wish you the best of luck as you take the next step in your 
journey, and we look forward to watching you succeed and thrive.
  I also want to thank your parents and the teachers of these wonderful 
scholars for guiding them along and helping them achieve this great 
goal. An education is the key that opens all of life's doors, and we 
thank you for handing these students the key.


                Recognizing the Service of Mark J. Sizer

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and thank Stearns 
County Human Services Administrator Mark Sizer for his dedicated 
service to our community. After 40 years of public service and 23 years 
dedicated to Stearns County, Mark is heading into retirement.
  Since he was appointed to the human services administrator position 
in 2011, Mark has dedicated himself to the many programs and employees 
in his department and to the cities of Stearns County. Under Mark's 
leadership, Stearns County has offered some of the best services and 
programs in Minnesota.
  Stearns County is one of the largest and most densely populated 
counties in Minnesota's Sixth Congressional District, and we are 
fortunate to have had such a dedicated public servant and strong 
leadership at the helm of this incredibly important department.
  Thank you for your service, Mark. I wish you a happy and relaxing 
retirement with those you love. You certainly deserve it.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are reminded to address their 
remarks to the Chair.

                          ____________________



