

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 61 (Friday, April 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 61 (Friday, April 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2443-S2444]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I move to proceed to executive session 
to consider Calendar No. 34, Rod Rosenstein to be Deputy Attorney 
General.
  The VICE PRESIDENT. The question is on agreeing to the motion.
  The motion was agreed to.
  The VICE PRESIDENT. The clerk will report the nomination.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of Rod J. 
Rosenstein, of Maryland, to be Deputy Attorney General.


                             Cloture Motion

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, I send a cloture motion to the desk.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. Capito). The cloture motion having been 
presented under rule XXII, the Chair directs the clerk to read the 
motion.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows:

                             Cloture Motion

       We, the undersigned Senators, in accordance with the 
     provisions of rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
     do hereby move to bring to a close debate on the nomination 
     of Rod J. Rosenstein, of Maryland, to be Deputy Attorney 
     General.
         Mitch McConnell, John Boozman, Jeff Flake, Thom Tillis, 
           Richard Burr, Mike Crapo, John Barrasso, Chuck 
           Grassley, Mike Rounds, John Kennedy, John Thune, Pat 
           Roberts, James E. Risch, Orrin G. Hatch, Shelley Moore 
           Capito, Lindsey Graham, John Cornyn.

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the 
mandatory quorum call with respect to the cloture motion be waived and 
that notwithstanding the provisions of rule XXII, the cloture vote on 
the nomination occur following disposition of the Perdue nomination on 
Monday, April 24.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Sasse). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.
  The Senator from Iowa.


                             Thanking Staff

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, there are some people who need to have a 
thank-you for what we just completed here--people who hardly ever get 
any attention. So I will take a couple of minutes to express my 
appreciation to some of the staff who worked on this Supreme Court 
nomination.
  The staff for both the majority and minority put in a lot of hours 
and reviewed a lot of material. Their work ensured that the hearing we 
held for Judge Gorsuch went smoothly and was fair to all of the 
Members. Our staff reviewed all of the 2,700 cases Judge Gorsuch 
participated in as well as 180,000 pages of documents that were 
produced by the Department of Justice and the George W. Bush 
Presidential Library and Museum that were related to that nomination.
  First, on my staff, I would like to recognize my Judiciary Committee 
staff director, Kolan Davis. Mr. Davis has been with me for 31 years, 
and I always value his wise counsel.
  I thank, as well, my personal office chief of staff, Jill Kozeny, who 
has been with me for 27 years.
  My deputy staff director is Rita Lari, and my chief nominations 
counsel is right here at my side, Ted Lehman.
  I would also like to thank counsels Megan Lacy, Lauren Mehler, Kasey 
O'Connor, and Katharine Willey. Each of them worked incredibly hard.
  Also on the team were several special counsels who joined the staff 
to work on this important nomination. They are Dan Guarnera, Bill Lane, 
Katie Roholt, and Carol Szurkowski.
  Every one of these talented lawyers played a very important role, and 
I think every member of the Senate Judiciary Committee benefited from 
their wise counsel throughout this confirmation process.
  I would also like to acknowledge and thank Ranking Member Feinstein, 
the Senator from California. The ranking member and her staff 
approached this process seriously from the very beginning. So I want to 
thank her staff for all the work they have put into preparing for the 
hearing and the debate, both in committee and here on the floor.
  Thank you to her staff director, Jennifer Duck, and several of the 
other lawyers on her staff who, I know, put a lot of time into ensuring 
that the hearing was a success. They include Paige Herwig, Nazneen 
Mehta, and Chan Park.
  I am also thankful for my very talented press team, Beth Levine and 
Taylor Foy, and for Jen Heins for keeping me on schedule, as well as 
for my personal office staff and the rest of the Judiciary Committee 
staff who took care of things while I was on the floor and during the 
long hours in the hearing.
  I also deeply appreciate the work of Senator McConnell's staff who 
was constantly in contact with my staff--most importantly John Abegg.
  The people I mentioned bore the bulk of the workload and labored 
tirelessly night after night, day after day, and nonstop through the 
weekends. They deserve our recognition as a tribute to their hard work, 
professionalism, and dedication to public service.
  Finally, my thanks to the Judiciary Committee's chief clerk, Roslyne 
Turner, and her team, Michelle Heller and Jason Covey.
  All of these staff members contributed to this process, and we would 
not have been able to conduct such a fair and thorough hearing without 
their hard work and their professionalism. To each of them, I extend a 
heartfelt thanks, and if I left anybody out, I will buy them a Dairy 
Queen.
  Mr. President, finally, my wife Barbara is in the Capitol today. As 
always, I thank her for her support and partnership for more than 62 
years.
  I yield the floor.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Colorado.


                      Confirmation of Neil Gorsuch

  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I thank the chairman of the Senate 
Judiciary Committee for the work he carried out over the past several 
months as this nomination proceeded.
  Mostly, I want to congratulate Judge Neil Gorsuch on his confirmation 
to the U.S. Supreme Court.
  While people in this Chamber voted yea or nay--some voted yes and 
some voted no--we all recognize the heavy obligation that now falls on 
the shoulders of Judge Gorsuch as a Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court.
  We will lean on Judge Gorsuch to make sure our Constitution is 
enforced. The American people will lean on Judge Gorsuch to make sure 
justice is dispensed impartially, with equality--that justice is indeed 
blind.
  To Judge Gorsuch and his family, congratulations.
  To the people of this Chamber who worked so hard over the past 
several weeks and months to assure this moment happened, thank you.
  To the great State of Colorado, it is an honor to have a fourth-
generation Coloradan--a man of the West, with grit and determination--
join the Nation's High Court.
  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Gardner). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.


           Commending the Chairman of the Judiciary Committee

  Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, I would like to add my voice to yours in 
commending the chairman of the Judiciary

[[Page S2444]]

Committee, the Senator from Iowa, for the honorable, principled, and 
commonsense way in which he led this committee through the last number 
of weeks and months as he shepherded through this body the confirmation 
of Judge--on Monday, Justice--Gorsuch.
  The chairman from Iowa is a special man, and the 100 of us--or the 99 
of us--who are privileged and blessed to serve with him know he is the 
model of how to conduct oneself honorably in this job, and America will 
benefit from Judge Gorsuch's joining the Court.
  I add my voice to those commending the senior Senator from Iowa for 
the way he has helped shepherd this body.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Sasse). The majority leader.


    Congratulating Neil Gorsuch and Thanking Those Involved in the 
                          Confirmation Process

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I am proud to say the Senate has now 
confirmed Judge Neil Gorsuch as an Associate Justice on the Supreme 
Court. I want to congratulate Judge Gorsuch on this significant 
achievement. I look forward to observing his good work in the years to 
come.
  The confirmation process was certainly a significant undertaking--one 
that would not have been possible without the dedicated efforts of so 
many. I would like to take a moment to recognize them now.
  First, I would like to thank the man who made this moment possible by 
sending us this outstanding nominee. He is our President, Donald Trump. 
This has been one of the most transparent judicial nomination processes 
anybody can remember, and President Trump should be commended for his 
efforts.
  I also appreciate the role Vice President Pence played in moving this 
nomination forward as well as the outstanding work of the White House 
staff, led by Don McGahn, and for the wise counsel they provided 
throughout this process.
  Of course, we all know how tirelessly our dear friend Senator 
Grassley has worked in leading the Judiciary Committee through this 
process. He has been an unwavering leader, though we know it has not 
always been easy. Chairman Grassley worked long and hard to ensure this 
process ran efficiently, to give Members on both sides ample 
opportunity to review the nomination, to see that the nominee was 
treated respectfully, and, ultimately, to help bring this well-
qualified jurist over the finish line.
  I would be remiss if I did not also mention the work of the Judiciary 
Committee collectively for its time and effort as well. I am referring 
to members of the committee, and I am referring to Chairman Grassley's 
excellent Judiciary staff as well. They were critical to this effort.
  Specifically, I thank the following: Staff Director Kolan Davis, 
Chief Nominations Counsel Ted Lehman, Communications Director Beth 
Levine, Megan Lacy, Lauren Mehler, Kasey O'Connor, Katharine Willey, 
Bill Lane, Carol Szurkowski, Dan Guarnera, and Katie Roholt.
  To that end, I would also like to acknowledge our former colleague 
Kelly Ayotte. From dozens of meetings with Senators to lengthy days-
long hearings, she helped to ensure that this process ran as smoothly 
as possible, and she did so with a sense of grace that we all came to 
know when she was one of our colleagues.
  Similarly, I want to recognize several White House Legislative 
Affairs staff who helped guide Judge Gorsuch through this process, 
including Mary Elizabeth Taylor, Marc Short, and Amy Swonger.
  There are several others I would like to thank as well.
  To the floor staff, Laura Dove, Robert Duncan, and their team, thank 
you for keeping the floor running smoothly and guiding us through 
Senate procedure. You all do incredible work and very difficult work, 
and you make it look effortless during each and every time.
  To the folks who keep our institution running--the Parliamentarians, 
the clerks, the reporters of debates, the doorkeepers, Capitol Police, 
and numerous others who have sacrificed and worked long--often 
grueling--hours, thank you for everything you do and for always doing 
it with a smile.
  Of course, I would also like to thank my Republican colleagues for 
their months of hard work. It has been a winding and sometimes bumpy 
road, but together we were able to confirm a judge who, I believe, will 
serve his country very well.
  In particular, let me thank Republican whip, John Cornyn, and his 
team, led by Monica Popp, for their efforts. Theirs is certainly not an 
easy job, but it is a necessary one.
  There are a few others I could not leave today without mentioning.
  To each and every member of my own staff, I want to express my 
sincere appreciation. There are almost too many names to mention, but, 
if I may, I would like to acknowledge a few individuals who have been 
particular assets through this entire process.
  My chief of staff, Sharon Soderstrom, led our team through this 
lengthy and arduous confirmation process while balancing a never-ending 
list of demands. She has been a constant source of support and, as 
always, an indisputable and fearless leader.
  Sharon, I am immensely grateful to you for being at the helm of my 
leadership office.
  My deputy chief, Don Stewart--``Stew'' as we like to call him--always 
knows exactly what to say or not to say, as the case may be. He has 
been a critical member of the team in charting the way forward and in 
helping convey our efforts to the American people.
  Stew, thank you for your discerning advice and, yes, for your good 
humor as well.
  My policy director, Hazen Marshall, has steered our policy objectives 
forward, balancing numerous legislative items and making it look 
effortless along the way.
  So thanks, Hazen, for your sound counsel and for driving the train 
forward on so many different issues.
  To my counsel, John Abegg, where do I begin? John has been an 
invaluable member of my team, a guiding source of wisdom, and a driving 
force in bringing Judge Gorsuch over the finish line. He has put in 
countless hours and has never stopped working, even in the most trying 
of times.
  John, literally, this moment would not have been possible without 
you.
  I know there are many others whom I wasn't able to name right now, 
but I want them to know we recognize their efforts, and we are 
immeasurably grateful for the work they do.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

                          ____________________



