

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4700-H4701]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Ms. BASS (for herself, Mr. Crowley, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Meeks, Mr. Richmond, and Ms. Jackson Lee):
       H.R. 2795. A bill to increase coordination among relevant 
     Federal departments and agencies to address United States 
     security and humanitarian interests in Yemen, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Armed Services, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. OLSON (for himself, Mr. Babin, Mr. Abraham, and 
             Mrs. Hartzler):
       H.R. 2796. A bill to repeal executive overreach, to clarify 
     that the proper constitutional authority for social 
     transformation belongs to the legislative branch; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself and Mr. Roe of 
             Tennessee):
       H.R. 2797. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for advanced illness care 
     coordination services for Medicare beneficiaries, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. PASCRELL:
       H.R. 2798. A bill to prohibit access by the Government of 
     the Russian Federation to certain Russian-owned diplomatic 
     facilities and properties located in the States of Maryland 
     and New York, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on Rules, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. McNERNEY (for himself, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Speier, 
             Mr. Garamendi, and Mr. Swalwell of California):
       H.R. 2799. A bill to amend the Reclamation Wastewater and 
     Groundwater Study and Facilities Act to authorize certain 
     recycled water projects, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO (for himself, Ms. Norton, Mr. Nadler, 
             Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Cummings, Mr. 
             Larsen of Washington, Mr. Capuano, Mrs. Napolitano, 
             Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Sires, Mr. Garamendi, 
             Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. 
             Nolan, Ms. Titus, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New 
             York, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Ms. Frankel of 
             Florida, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. Payne, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mrs. Lawrence, and Mr. DeSaulnier):
       H.R. 2800. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     ensure improvement of air traffic control services, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committees on Armed 
     Services, the Budget, and Appropriations, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RYAN of Ohio (for himself, Mr. King of New York, 
             and Ms. Schakowsky):
       H.R. 2801. A bill to require the Secretary of 
     Transportation to issue a rule requiring all new passenger 
     motor vehicles to be equipped with a child safety alert 
     system, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. COFFMAN (for himself, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney 
             of New York, and Mrs. Comstock):
       H.R. 2802. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide a tax-preferred savings account for first-
     time homebuyers; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself and Mrs. Wagner):
       H.R. 2803. A bill to provide assistance in abolishing human 
     trafficking in the United States; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees on Foreign 
     Affairs, Energy and Commerce, and Homeland Security, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LIPINSKI (for himself and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 2804. A bill to require the Secretary of 
     Transportation to implement changes to improve air 
     transportation, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Miss RICE of New York (for herself, Mr. Donovan, Mr. 
             Reichert, and Mr. Larsen of Washington):
       H.R. 2805. A bill to permanently authorize the Asia-Pacific 
     Economic Cooperation Business Travel Card Program; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. BERGMAN (for himself, Mr. Upton, Mr. Walberg, 
             Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. 
             Kildee, Mr. Bishop of Michigan, Mr. Levin, Mr. Trott, 
             Mr. Mitchell, and Mrs. Lawrence):
       H.R. 2806. A bill to increase authorized funding for the 
     Soo Locks; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. THORNBERRY (for himself, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, Ms. Stefanik, and Mr. Langevin):
       H.R. 2807. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     require congressional notification concerning sensitive 
     military cyber operations and cyber weapons, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York (for himself 
             and Mr. Coffman):
       H.R. 2808. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to increase the amount that can be withdrawn without 
     penalty from individual retirement plans as first-time 
     homebuyer distributions; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SMITH of Texas (for himself, Mr. Babin, Mr. 
             Bridenstine, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Rohrabacher, Mr. 
             Hultgren, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Higgins of 
             Louisiana, and Mr. Kilmer):
       H.R. 2809. A bill to amend title 51, United States Code, to 
     provide for the authorization and supervision of 
     nongovernmental space activities, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. THORNBERRY (for himself and Mr. Smith of 
             Washington) (both by request):
       H.R. 2810. A bill to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
     year 2018 for military activities of the Department of 
     Defense and for military construction, to prescribe military 
     personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself and Mr. Gaetz):
       H.R. 2811. A bill to preserve the integrity of American 
     elections by providing the Attorney General with the 
     investigative tools to identify and prosecute foreign agents 
     who seek to circumvent Federal registration requirements and 
     unlawfully influence the political process; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.

[[Page H4701]]

  

           By Mr. CORREA:
       H.R. 2812. A bill to direct the President to develop a 
     strategy for the offensive use of cyber capabilities, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Armed Services, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HUFFMAN:
       H.R. 2813. A bill to prohibit the Export-Import Bank of the 
     United States from providing financial support for certain 
     high carbon intensity energy projects; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. KHANNA (for himself, Ms. Lee, Mr. Pocan, Ms. 
             Norton, Ms. Barragan, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Raskin, Ms. 
             Kaptur, Ms. Moore, and Mr. Johnson of Georgia):
       H.R. 2814. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to impose a tax on employers whose employees receive 
     certain Federal benefits; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. LANCE (for himself, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Pascrell, 
             Mr. MacArthur, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Smith of New 
             Jersey, Mr. Norcross, Mr. Frelinghuysen, Mr. Payne, 
             Mr. Sires, Mr. Pallone, and Mr. Gottheimer):
       H.R. 2815. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 30 East Somerset Street in 
     Raritan, New Jersey, as the ``Sergeant John Basilone Post 
     Office''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. MEADOWS:
       H.R. 2816. A bill to authorize a settlement in accordance 
     with the agreement entered into by the Tennessee Valley 
     Authority and the United States Department of the Interior, 
     and counties within the Great Smoky Mountains National Park; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. MESSER:
       H.R. 2817. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to clarify eligibility for the child tax credit; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. ROSS:
       H.R. 2818. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow individuals a deduction for amounts contributed 
     to disaster savings accounts to help defray the cost of 
     preparing their homes to withstand a disaster and to repair 
     or replace property damaged or destroyed in a disaster; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. SLAUGHTER (for herself, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, 
             and Mr. Walz):
       H.R. 2819. A bill to amend the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 
     1995 to require the disclosure of political intelligence 
     activities, to amend title 18, United States Code, to provide 
     for restrictions on former officers, employees, and elected 
     officials of the executive and legislative branches regarding 
     political intelligence contacts, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. SUOZZI (for himself, Mr. Roskam, Mr. Meeks, and 
             Mr. Hill):
       H.R. 2820. A bill to direct the Secretary of State to 
     establish within the Department of State the Office of Anti-
     Corruption relating to Illicit Russian Financial Activities 
     in Europe, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Intelligence (Permanent Select), for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. TIBERI (for himself and Mr. Larson of 
             Connecticut):
       H.R. 2821. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to reform the credit for increasing research activities, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. YOHO (for himself, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. Jones, 
             Mr. Soto, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Thompson of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. McGovern, and Mr. 
             Banks of Indiana):
       H.R. 2822. A bill to direct the Secretary of Defense to 
     carry out a pilot program to lend Department of Defense farm 
     equipment to eligible farmers, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. NOLAN:
       H. Res. 377. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that Congress should confirm that money is 
     not free speech and that corporations are not people for 
     purposes of the First Amendment right to make campaign 
     contributions by enacting a constitutional amendment 
     overturning the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of 
     Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission, and should 
     restore the right of Congress and the States to impose limits 
     on the amount of expenditures that may be made by candidates 
     and others in support of elections for public office by 
     enacting a constitutional amendment overturning the decision 
     of the Supreme Court in the case of Buckley v. Valeo; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.

                          ____________________



