

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2531-S2532]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 59

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cruz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 59, a bill to provide that 
silencers be treated the same as long guns.


                                 S. 109

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 109, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for coverage under the 
Medicare program of pharmacist services.


                                 S. 223

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 223, a bill to provide 
immunity from suit for certain individuals who disclose potential 
examples of financial exploitation of senior citizens, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 234

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 234, a bill to 
provide incentives for businesses to keep jobs in America.


                                 S. 253

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 253, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to repeal the Medicare outpatient 
rehabilitation therapy caps.


                                 S. 292

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) and the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 292, a bill to maximize discovery, and accelerate 
development and availability, of promising childhood cancer treatments, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 339

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the names of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Udall) and the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 339, a bill to amend title 10, United States 
Code, to repeal the requirement for reduction of survivor annuities 
under the Survivor Benefit Plan by veterans' dependency and indemnity 
compensation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King), the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey), the Senator 
from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin), the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown), and 
the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) were added as cosponsors 
of S. 445, a bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to 
ensure more timely access to home health services for Medicare 
beneficiaries under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 470

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 470, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to enhance the Child and Dependent 
Care Tax Credit and make the credit fully refundable.


                                 S. 487

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) was added as a cosponsor of S. 487, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for an exclusion for 
assistance provided to participants in certain veterinary student loan 
repayment or forgiveness programs.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the names of the Senator from 
Arkansas (Mr. Cotton) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 497, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage of certain 
lymphedema compression treatment items as items of durable medical 
equipment.


                                 S. 517

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 517, a bill to amend the 
Clean Air Act with respect to the ethanol waiver for Reid vapor 
pressure limitations under such Act.


                                 S. 569

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) and the Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 569, a bill to amend title 54, United States 
Code, to provide consistent and reliable authority for, and for the 
funding of, the Land and Water Conservation Fund to maximize the 
effectiveness of the Fund for future generations, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 611

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 611, a bill to 
amend the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act to meet the needs of 
homeless children, youth, and families, and honor the assessments and 
priorities of local communities.


                                 S. 632

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms. 
Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 632, a bill to amend title 
28 of the United States Code to authorize the appointment of additional 
bankruptcy judges; and for other purposes.


                                 S. 652

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 652, a bill to amend 
the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize a program for early 
detection, diagnosis, and treatment regarding deaf and hard-of-hearing 
newborns, infants, and young children.


                                 S. 717

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the name of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mr. Grassley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 717, a bill to promote 
pro bono legal services as a critical way in which to empower survivors 
of domestic violence.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 720, a bill to amend the 
Export Administration Act of 1979 to include in the prohibitions on 
boycotts against allies of the United States boycotts fostered by 
international governmental organizations against Israel and to direct 
the Export-Import Bank of the United States to oppose boycotts against 
Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 722

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the names of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt), the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Crapo), the Senator from 
Washington (Ms. Cantwell), and the Senator from Iowa (Mr. Grassley) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 722, a bill to impose sanctions with 
respect to Iran in relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, 
support for acts of international terrorism, and violations of human 
rights, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 744

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 744, a bill to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act 
to delay the inclusion in consumer credit reports and to establish 
requirements for debt collectors with respect to medical debt 
information of veterans due to inappropriate or delayed billing 
payments or reimbursements from the Department of Veterans Affairs, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 754

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr.

[[Page S2532]]

Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 754, a bill to support meeting 
our Nation's growing cybersecurity workforce needs by expanding the 
cybersecurity education pipeline.


                                 S. 832

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 832, a bill to enhance the 
transparency and accelerate the impact of programs under the African 
Growth and Opportunity Act and the Millennium Challenge Corporation, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 869

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. Toomey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 869, a bill to repeal the 
violation of sovereign nations' laws and privacy matters.


                                 S. 872

  At the request of Mr. Schumer, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 872, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to make permanent the extension 
of the Medicare-dependent hospital (MDH) program and the increased 
payments under the Medicare low-volume hospital program.


                                 S. 878

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 878, a bill to establish 
privacy protections for customers of broadband Internet access service 
and other telecommunications services.


                                 S. 901

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 901, a bill to prohibit any 
reduction in the amount of the per diem allowance to which members of 
the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps or civilian employees of 
the Department of Defense are entitled based on the duration of 
temporary duty assignments or official travel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 910

  At the request of Mr. Schumer, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 910, a bill to prohibit 
discrimination against individuals with disabilities who need long-term 
services and supports, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 923

  At the request of Mr. Kennedy, the name of the Senator from Kentucky 
(Mr. Paul) was added as a cosponsor of S. 923, a bill to exempt certain 
financial institutions from regulations issued under the Dodd-Frank 
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.


                            S. CON. RES. 12

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken) and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) were 
added as cosponsors of S. Con. Res. 12, a concurrent resolution 
expressing the sense of Congress that those who served in the bays, 
harbors, and territorial seas of the Republic of Vietnam during the 
period beginning on January 9, 1962, and ending on May 7, 1975, should 
be presumed to have served in the Republic of Vietnam for all purposes 
under the Agent Orange Act of 1991.


                               S. RES. 99

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 99, a resolution 
recognizing the 11 African-American soldiers of the 333rd Field 
Artillery Battalion who were massacred in Wereth, Belgium, during the 
Battle of the Bulge in December 1944.

                          ____________________



