

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4763]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 RECOGNIZING HILLCREST AIRCRAFT COMPANY

 Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, today I would like to recognize an 
outstanding small business located in my home State of Idaho. As many 
of my colleagues in the Western Caucus can tell you, catastrophic 
wildfires are a cause for major concern and costs for large swathes of 
the West, particularly in the summer months. This month's small 
business has found their specialty in helping to control these large 
wildfires in a safe and efficient manner. As chairman of the Senate 
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, I am pleased to honor 
Hillcrest Aircraft Company as the U.S. Senate Small Business of the 
Month for August 2017.
  Hillcrest Aircraft Company is based out of Lewiston, ID, and is a 
utility helicopter company with a broad spectrum of work. Hillcrest 
Aircraft Company was founded by local pilots in 1946. Jerry Wilson 
partnered with the company in 1959, eventually becoming the sole owner 
in 1972. Jerry's son, Gale Wilson, is the current president of the 
company, and his son, Keith White, serves as vice president. The 
Wilson's legacy of promoting a strong work ethic coupled with strict 
safety requirements has built the company into a premier helicopter 
business. In 1968, Hillcrest became the first certified Bell customer 
service facility in Idaho, and 1 year later, in 1969, they became an 
approved FAA repair station. Their main focus, however, is aerial 
firefighting. Whether they are transporting firefighters to remote 
areas or dropping hundreds of gallons of water on a raging fire, 
Hillcrest prides itself on protecting communities from dangerous 
wildfires. In fact, they have fought fires in all of the lower 48 
States during their 60-plus years of experience. On top of aerial 
firefighting, Hillcrest flies for power and timber companies, 
photographers, videographers, and even fish planters. Their 
comprehensive background in a variety of industries, dedication to 
operational safety, and commitment to strict ethical standards continue 
to keep this family-owned business busy around the clock.
  Hillcrest has always put safety first, and in 2015 and 2016, they 
were rewarded for their efforts. Hillcrest achieved the necessary 
requirements for the International Standard for Business Aircraft 
Operations, IS-BAO, Stage I registration by implementing a safety 
management system, SMS, in 2015 and Stage II registration in 2016. This 
safety standard acknowledges the company's efforts to improve their 
safety risk profile and operating efficiency. Hillcrest was one of the 
first rotary-wing-only operators to achieve the IS-BAO Stage II.
  The future is bright for Hillcrest Aircraft Company as they continue 
to expand their business. Just a couple of months ago in June, 
Hillcrest opened their very own fixed base operation, FBO, at the 
Lewiston-Nez Perce County Airport. I would like to congratulate Gale 
Wilson and his family, along with all of the employees at Hillcrest, 
for the hard work they do in trying conditions while still keeping 
their commitment to safety. I wish the best for Hillcrest Aircraft 
Company, and I am confident that they will continue to keep Idahoans 
and Americans safe.

                          ____________________



