

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 117 (Wednesday, July 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 117 (Wednesday, July 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5439-H5440]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




    CELEBRATING 150TH ANNIVERSARY OF NEW LIGHT BEULAH BAPTIST CHURCH

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
South Carolina (Mr. Clyburn) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor New Light Beulah 
Baptist Church of Hopkins, South Carolina, on the occasion of its 150th 
anniversary. Many members of the congregation have traveled here to 
Washington, D.C., from South Carolina to

[[Page H5440]]

observe this tribute, and have joined us here in the gallery.
  New Light Beulah Baptist Church grew out of Beulah Baptist Church, 
which was a place of worship for Whites and African Americans. In 
December of 1867, several years after the effective date of the 
Emancipation Proclamation, many newly freed slaves began exercising 
their new-found freedoms by taking control of their own affairs. 
Consequently, the 565 African-American members of the congregation 
began worshipping on alternating Sundays from the 11 White members of 
Beulah Baptist Church.
  In 1870, after the dispersal of the White congregation, the African-
American members of Beulah Baptist Church further asserted their 
independence by renaming the church New Light Beulah Baptist Church.
  After a number of disputes over the church's land, the congregation 
decided to build a brush arbor on the land of Deacon Pharaoh Smith, a 
revered leader within the church. Over the following years, this humble 
brush arbor evolved into the thriving spiritual center that New Light 
Beulah Baptist Church has become today.
  New Light Beulah Baptist Church embodies the resilience and service 
of the African-American community. Forged from adversity, this 
congregation has stood strong throughout tumultuous times, both 
externally and internally. Their strength comes not from the brick and 
mortar within which they worship, but from God's good graces and the 
steadfast individuals who have labored in this historic church.
  The church has been a leader in Hopkins, South Carolina, a small 
rural community southeast of Columbia, the State's capital. Through 
various community-oriented initiatives, such as their child development 
program, Meals on Wheels, the Neighboring Christian Athletic 
Association, and the Educational Society, the congregation has 
positively impacted the entire community.
  Next month, New Light Beulah Baptist Church will become the first 
African-American church in the Hopkins community to be registered as a 
historic place by the South Carolina Department of Archives and 
History. I congratulate them on this special recognition.

  Mr. Speaker, it is my great honor to represent this fine congregation 
in this august body. I ask my colleagues in the United States House of 
Representatives to join me in congratulating New Light Beulah Baptist 
Church on their 150th anniversary and wishing them continued prosperity 
in the days ahead.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair would remind Members that it is 
not in order to refer to occupants of the gallery.

                          ____________________



