

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 93 (Tuesday, May 30, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 93 (Tuesday, May 30, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4618]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. LYNCH (for himself, Mr. Cummings, Ms. Maxine 
             Waters of California, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New 
             York, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. 
             O'Halleran, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Norton, Mr. Clay, Mrs. 
             Demings, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Mr. Carson 
             of Indiana, Ms. Titus, Ms. Brownley of California, 
             Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Cooper, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Evans, 
             Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. DeFazio, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, and Mr. Ellison):
       H.R. 2762. A bill to require that waivers and 
     authorizations for certain Federal employees relating to 
     ethics requirements are made public and submitted to the 
     Office of Government Ethics, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KNIGHT (for himself and Mrs. Murphy of Florida):
       H.R. 2763. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     improve the Small Business Innovation Research program and 
     Small Business Technology Transfer program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Small Business, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. ADAMS (for herself, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Payne, 
             Ms. Meng, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mr. Takano, and Ms. 
             Shea-Porter):
       H.R. 2764. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to establish a small business start-up tax credit for 
     veterans; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself, Mr. Rush, Mr. Cook, and 
             Mr. Dunn):
       H.R. 2765. A bill to provide for the issuance of a forever 
     stamp to honor the sacrifices of the brave men and women of 
     the Armed Forces who are still prisoner, missing, or 
     unaccounted for, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. KAPTUR (for herself, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, Mr. Nolan, and Mr. Grijalva):
       H.R. 2766. A bill to require that, in cases in which the 
     annual trade deficit between the United States and another 
     country is $10,000,000,000 or more for 3 consecutive years, 
     the President take the necessary steps to create a more 
     balanced trading relationship with that country; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. MURPHY of Florida:
       H.R. 2767. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     require senior procurement executives, procurement center 
     representatives, and the Office of Small and Disadvantaged 
     Business Utilization to assist small business concerns 
     participating in the Small Business Innovation Research 
     Program and the Small Business Technology Transfer Program, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Small Business, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. TIPTON:
       H.R. 2768. A bill to designate certain mountain peaks in 
     the State of Colorado as ``Fowler Peak'' and ``Boskoff 
     Peak''; to the Committee on Natural Resources.

                          ____________________



