

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 110 (Tuesday, June 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 110 (Tuesday, June 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3801-S3802]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 59

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 59, a bill to provide that 
silencers be treated the same as long guns.


                                 S. 109

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 109, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for coverage 
under the Medicare program of pharmacist services.


                                 S. 220

  At the request of Mr. Sasse, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 220, a bill to amend title 
18, United States Code, to prohibit a health care practitioner from 
failing to exercise the proper degree of care in the case of a child 
who survives an abortion or attempted abortion.


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken), the Senator from Vermont (Mr. Leahy) and the Senator 
from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) were

[[Page S3802]]

added as cosponsors of S. 266, a bill to award the Congressional Gold 
Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his heroic achievements and 
courageous contributions to peace in the Middle East.


                                 S. 298

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 298, a bill to require 
Senate candidates to file designations, statements, and reports in 
electronic form.


                                 S. 360

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. Franken) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 360, a bill to amend the Help America 
Vote Act of 2002 to require States to provide for same day 
registration.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the names of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Menendez) and the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. Udall) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 654, a bill to revise section 48 of title 18, 
United States Code, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 667

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the names of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) and the Senator from Missouri (Mrs. McCaskill) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 667, a bill to amend titles 5, 10, 37, and 
38, United States Code, to ensure that an order to serve on active duty 
under section 12304a or 12304b of title 10, United States Code, is 
treated the same as other orders to serve on active duty for 
determining the eligibility of members of the uniformed services and 
veterans for certain benefits and for calculating the deadlines for 
certain benefits.


                                 S. 697

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 697, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to lower the mileage threshold for 
deduction in determining adjusted gross income of certain expenses of 
members of reserve components of the Armed Forces, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 822

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the names of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper) and the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 822, a bill to amend the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 to 
modify provisions relating to grants, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 844

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) was added as a cosponsor of S. 844, a bill to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to consider certain time spent by 
members of reserve components of the Armed Forces while receiving 
medical care from the Secretary of Defense as active duty for purposes 
of eligibility for Post-9/11 Educational Assistance, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 947

  At the request of Ms. Hassan, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 947, a bill to protect 
passengers on flights in air transportation from being denied boarding 
involuntarily, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 951

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Mr. Johnson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 951, a bill to reform the 
process by which Federal agencies analyze and formulate new regulations 
and guidance documents, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1014

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1014, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to make grants to eligible organizations 
to provide service dogs to veterans with severe post-traumatic stress 
disorder, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1024

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Warner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1024, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to reform the rights and processes relating to 
appeals of decisions regarding claims for benefits under the laws 
administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for other 
purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the names of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) and the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1024, supra.


                                S. 1172

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1172, a bill to impose 
sanctions with respect to foreign persons responsible for gross 
violations of internationally recognized human rights against lesbian, 
gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) individuals, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1196

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1196, a bill to expand the 
capacity and capability of the ballistic missile defense system of the 
United States, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1201

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the name of the Senator from 
Indiana (Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1201, a bill to 
allow individuals living in areas without qualified health plans 
offered through an Exchange to have similar access to health insurance 
coverage as Members of Congress and congressional staff.


                                S. 1217

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Graham) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1217, a bill to 
amend the National Labor Relations Act to provide for appropriate 
designation of collective bargaining units.


                                S. 1228

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1228, a bill to require a 
National Diplomacy and Development Strategy.


                                S. 1312

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1312, a bill to 
prioritize the fight against human trafficking in the United States.


                                S. 1343

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1343, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code to extend and modify certain charitable tax 
provisions.


                                S. 1393

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1393, a bill to 
streamline the process by which active duty military, reservists, and 
veterans receive commercial driver's licenses.


                              S. RES. 136

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. Schumer) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 136, a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate regarding the 102nd anniversary of 
the Armenian Genocide.

                          ____________________



