

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 71 (Wednesday, April 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 71 (Wednesday, April 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2554]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 236, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic 
beverages.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to amend the Tariff 
Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving through the mail shall 
be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and to 
require the provision of advance electronic information on shipments of 
mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and for other purposes.


                                 S. 384

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the names of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 384, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
to permanently extend the new markets tax credit, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) and the Senator from Michigan (Mr. Peters) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 445, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to ensure more timely access to home health 
services for Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 487

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 487, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for an exclusion for 
assistance provided to participants in certain veterinary student loan 
repayment or forgiveness programs.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage 
of certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of durable 
medical equipment.


                                 S. 512

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 512, a bill to modernize 
the regulation of nuclear energy.


                                 S. 534

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. Sullivan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 534, a bill to prevent 
the sexual abuse of minors and amateur athletes by requiring the prompt 
reporting of sexual abuse to law enforcement authorities, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 591

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 591, a bill to 
expand eligibility for the program of comprehensive assistance for 
family caregivers of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to expand 
benefits available to participants under such program, to enhance 
special compensation for members of the uniformed services who require 
assistance in everyday life, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 678

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 678, a bill to 
delcare English as the official language of the United States, to 
establish a uniform English language rule for naturalization, and to 
avoid misconstructions of the English language texts of the laws of the 
United States, pursuant to Congress' powers to provide for the general 
welfare of the United States and to establish a uniform rule of 
naturalization under article I, section 8, of the Constitution.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 720, a bill to 
amend the Export Administration Act of 1979 to include in the 
prohibitions on boycotts against allies of the United States boycotts 
fostered by international governmental organizations against Israel and 
to direct the Export-Import Bank of the United States to oppose 
boycotts against Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 722

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Ms. Cantwell) was withdrawn as a cosponsor of S. 722, a bill to impose 
sanctions with respect to Iran in relation to Iran's ballistic missile 
program, support for acts of international terrorism, and violations of 
human rights, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 819

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 819, a bill to amend the 
Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to provide more effective remedies to 
victims of discrimination in the payment of wages on the basis of sex, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 842

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 842, a bill to prohibit 
Federal agencies and Federal contractors from requesting that an 
applicant for employment disclose criminal history record information 
before the applicant has received a conditional offer, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 867

  At the request of Mr. Donnelly, the names of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Brown) and the Senator from Utah (Mr. Hatch) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 867, a bill to provide support for law enforcement 
agency efforts to protect the mental health and well-being of law 
enforcement officers, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 926

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson), the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) and the Senator 
from Arkansas (Mr. Cotton) were added as cosponsors of S. 926, a bill 
to authorize the Global War on Terror Memorial Foundation to establish 
the National Global War on Terrorism Memorial as a commemorative work 
in the District of Columbia, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



