

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2611]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         TRIBUTE TO DAVE SHOJI

  Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, today I wish to congratulate retiring 
University of Hawaii women's volleyball coach Dave Shoji on an 
outstanding 42-year career.
  In 1975, at just 28 years old, Dave Shoji tallied his first win as 
head coach of the Rainbow Wahine volleyball team. Since then, he has 
gone on to compile one of the most decorated resumes in collegiate 
volleyball history. In fact, there has been no such thing as a losing 
season during Dave's tenure with the Rainbow Wahine. In 2013, he earned 
the title of the National Collegiate Athletic Association's alltime 
winningest coach. In 2016, he became just the second coach in NCAA 
history to win 1,200 matches.
  He departs the university with an astonishing record of 1,202 wins, 
204 losses, and 1 tie, including 4 national titles, 25 conference 
championships, and more than 30 postseason national tournament 
appearances.
  Coach Shoji leaves the confines of the Stan Sheriff Center with a 
legacy much larger than the numbers.
  It is fitting that Coach Shoji's tenure began just a few short years 
after the enactment of title IX, a law now named for Hawaii 
Congresswoman Patsy Mink who championed its passage. Title IX seeks to 
ensure equal opportunity and prohibit sex discrimination in higher 
education. It is most widely known for expanding opportunities for 
women in collegiate athletics. Coach Shoji's tenure at the helm of 
Rainbow Wahine volleyball has clearly demonstrated the value of 
opportunity for young people--not just young women--in Hawaii. His 
teams have been examples of what can be achieved through hard work, 
professionalism, and teamwork. That example has led many local players 
to aspire to 1 day don the green and white Wahine jersey, play in front 
of sold-out crowds, and look to Coach Shoji in the center of the huddle 
during a nail-biting set. Parents were always hopeful, too, that they 
would witness their daughter's transition from girl to woman in the 
care of Coach Shoji and company.
  During his tenure, Coach Shoji's has coached 86 All-American 
selections, 35 conference players of the year and, 175 all-conference 
picks. His players' successes extended beyond the court. More than 100 
players have earned all-academic conference recognitions under his 
guidance.
  Over the past 42 years, Coach Shoji has built a reputation for 
excellence built on hard work, integrity, and love for the game. He has 
helped shape countless student athletes and brought pride to their 
families and legions of fans. Coach Shoji has set the standard for 
those who follow.
  Hawaii extends our warmest aloha and mahalo nui loa to Coach Shoji 
for his passion and commitment to not only the sport of volleyball but 
the State of Hawaii. ``Let's go 'Bows!''

                          ____________________



