

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2718-S2719]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      TRIBUTE TO EDWARD GNEHM, JR.

  Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I greatly appreciate having this opportunity 
to share with my colleagues the presentation of an award that means a 
great deal to me for a number of reasons. It is the president's medal 
that will be presented by Steven Knapp, the president of The George 
Washington University, GW. Its recipient, Edward Gnehm, has been a 
friend of mine ever since we were college freshmen at GW.
  When Edward Gnehm, Jr., or ``Skip'' as everyone came to know him, 
came to Washington, DC, from rural Georgia and I left rural Wyoming to 
tackle the challenge of my own college education at GW, I don't think 
either one of us knew what a great impact those 4 years would have on 
us and how our college experience would change our lives forever. It 
was a purely random thing, but when the administration of George 
Washington University decided which rooms we would use as freshman, 
they assigned Skip and me to the same dorm. We became friends pretty 
quickly. Then, when we pledged the same fraternity, we became brothers 
as well. Skip is the only real brother I have ever had, and I have 
relied on him and enjoyed that same kind of friendship and relationship 
ever since.
  Our room was a pretty interesting place to be. I was a night person, 
studying accounting and business issues that would become my first 
major career. Skip, on the other hand, was a morning person, interested 
in reading whatever he could to sharpen his knowledge and understanding 
of foreign relations. He had a dream even back then that he would 
someday be an ambassador for the United States.
  As I watched him pursue his dream, I learned that Skip was an 
interesting guy, very smart, dedicated, and determined to be the best 
he could possibly be at his chosen field. He helped me learn to expect 
the same of myself.
  Soon, our college years were over, and we each went our separate 
ways, keeping in contact, pursuing our life's dreams and taking 
advantage of every opportunity that presented itself. Soon Skip was 
making his way through our Nation's diplomatic and foreign service 
system. For my part, what began as a small business soon had me working 
my way through Wyoming's political system on the local, State, and 
national levels.
  As the years went quickly past, Skip and I continued to follow a 
similar path in life as we both met and married our special wives. Our 
kids were even born about the same times. Skip found in his wife, 
Peggy, and I found in my wife, Diana/, the kind of support and 
assistance it was going to take if we were to achieve the kind of 
success we were both hoping for. For Skip, Peggy's encouragement and 
guidance has helped him to be a force for the United States and to 
serve our country all over the world. For my part, Diana has been 
exactly what I needed to serve the people of Wyoming at every 
opportunity.
  For Skip, one of the greatest moments of his career had to be his 
service as our Ambassador to Kuwait. He was nominated to that post when 
Saddam Hussein came calling with his army and attempted to set up shop 
there. Fortunately, Skip had what it takes to face up to a challenge 
like that with great courage, bravery, and determination. Those who 
knew him weren't surprised. We knew he had it in him, and when our 
Nation emerged from that challenge, our President,

[[Page S2719]]

George Bush, knew he had chosen wisely when he selected Skip Gnehm for 
that difficult post. I got to watch on television as Skip raised the 
American flag at the recaptured U.S. Embassy in Kuwait.
  I could go on at length about some of his other posts and the places 
he has served to promote and protect U.S. interests. He has been our 
Deputy Permanent Representative to the United Nations. He has also 
served as our Ambassador to Australia and to the Hashemite Kingdom of 
Jordan, presenting his credentials on 9/11 and then flying to peace 
meetings with the King of Jordan. He still has special contacts 
throughout the Middle East.
  Over the years, Skip received a number of awards for his work 
overseas, including the Secretary of State's Distinguished Service 
Award for his service in Jordan and Superior Honor Awards for his 
service in Kuwait and Riyadh.
  Skip has also been an active force for the betterment of The George 
Washington University in a number of different capacities. He has been 
a member of the board of trustees, the vice president of the general 
alumni association, and the faculty representative to the board of 
directors.
  Skip is currently on the faculty of the Elliott School of 
International Affairs where he is inspiring our next generation of 
foreign policy advisers and experts by sharing his own experience borne 
from a lengthy career in our foreign service. Thanks to Skip, we can 
rest assured that our future diplomatic efforts will be in good hands
  Looking back to those days years ago when Skip and I were spending 
another night hitting the books for the next day's class or exam, I 
don't think either one of us could have dreamed how well things would 
turn out for the two of us. I have been given an opportunity to 
represent the people of Wyoming as mayor, member of the State 
legislature, and now as a U.S. Senator. I was always proud to work on 
Skip's confirmation to these different postings. Skip has had an impact 
all over the world and touched more lives than we will ever be able to 
count.
  Simply put, I couldn't be more proud of Skip and all he has 
accomplished over the years. I don't think anyone is more deserving of 
the president's medal that he will receive from The George Washington 
University's president Steven Knapp. Steven is doing great work to 
promote GW and ensure its future will be even better than its past.
  This is a great honor for Skip, and I am sure he couldn't be more 
appreciative of this recognition. It represents a lifetime of 
achievements for him and an amazing list of accomplishments. As the 
title of the classic film reminds us, Skip has had a ``wonderful life'' 
of which both Skip and GW can be truly proud. He represents what a 
tremendous advantage an education at George Washington University can 
be when placed in the right hands.
  Thank you.

                          ____________________



