

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3042-S3043]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 170

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 170, a bill to provide 
for nonpreemption of measures by State and local governments to divest 
from entities that engage in commerce-related or investment-related 
boycott, divestment, or sanctions activities targeting Israel, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 292

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the names of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Cassidy) and the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 292, a bill to maximize discovery, and 
accelerate development and availability, of promising childhood cancer 
treatments, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 474

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. Manchin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 474, a bill to 
condition assistance to the West Bank and Gaza on steps by the 
Palestinian Authority to end violence and terrorism against Israeli 
citizens.


                                 S. 568

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 568, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to count a period of receipt of 
outpatient observation services in a hospital toward satisfying the 3-
day inpatient hospital requirement for coverage of skilled nursing 
facility services under Medicare.


                                 S. 569

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 569, a bill to amend title 
54, United States Code, to provide consistent and reliable authority 
for, and for the funding of, the Land and Water Conservation Fund to 
maximize the effectiveness of the Fund for future generations, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 591

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 591, a bill to expand 
eligibility for the program of comprehensive assistance for family 
caregivers of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to expand benefits 
available to participants under such program, to enhance special 
compensation for members of the uniformed services who require 
assistance in everyday life, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 597

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 597, a bill to increase Federal 
Pell Grants for the children of fallen public safety officers, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 623

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the names of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Booker) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 623, a bill to enhance the transparency and 
accelerate the impact of assistance provided under the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 to promote quality basic education in developing 
countries, to better enable such countries to achieve universal access 
to quality basic education and improved learning outcomes, to eliminate 
duplication and waste, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 652

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S.

[[Page S3043]]

652, a bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize a 
program for early detection, diagnosis, and treatment regarding deaf 
and hard-of-hearing newborns, infants, and young children.


                                 S. 765

  At the request of Mr. Perdue, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 765, a bill to amend title 
18, United States Code, to provide for penalties for the sale of any 
Purple Heart awarded to a member of the Armed Forces.


                                 S. 976

  At the request of Mr. Enzi, the name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr. 
Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 976, a bill to restore States' 
sovereign rights to enforce State and local sales and use tax laws, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1002

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1002, a bill to enhance 
the ability of community financial institutions to foster economic 
growth and serve their communities, boost small businesses, increase 
individual savings, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1085

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the names of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst) and the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1085, a bill to amend title 18, United States Code, 
to provide enhanced penalties for convicted murderers who kill or 
target America's public safety officers.


                                S. 1094

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1094, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to improve the accountability of employees of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1114

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Mr. Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1114, a bill to nullify the 
effect of the recent Executive order laying a foundation for 
discrimination against LGBTQ individuals, women, religious minorities, 
and others under the pretext of religious freedom.


                                S. 1135

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1135, a bill to amend the 
Higher Education Act of 1965 to clarify the Federal Pell Grant duration 
limits of borrowers who attend an institution of higher education that 
closes or commits fraud or other misconduct, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1155

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1155, a bill to amend 
title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 in order to increase the 
amount of financial support available for working students.


                                S. 1163

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1163, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to ensure compliance of medical 
facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs with requirements 
relating to the scheduling of appointments, to require appointment by 
the President and confirmation by the Senate of certain health care 
officials of the Department, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



