

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 109 (Monday, June 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 109 (Monday, June 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3767]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




     SENATE RESOLUTION 203--DESIGNATING THE MONTH OF JUNE 2017, AS 
 ``NATIONAL POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS AWARENESS MONTH'' AND JUNE 27, 2017, 
          AS ``NATIONAL POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS AWARENESS DAY''

  Ms. HEITKAMP (for herself, Mr. Heller, Mr. Tester, Mr. Tillis, Ms. 
Baldwin, Mr. Grassley, Mr. Brown, Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Murphy, Mr. 
Kennedy, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Hoeven, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Roberts, Mr. 
Blumenthal, Mr. Daines, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Crapo, Mr. Heinrich, Ms. 
Collins, Mr. Donnelly, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Markey, Mr. Casey, 
Mr. Peters, Mr. Warner, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Coons, Ms. Cortez Masto, Mr. 
Bennet, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Franken, and Mrs. Feinstein) submitted the 
following resolution; which was referred to the Committee on the 
Judiciary:

                              S. Res. 203

       Whereas the brave men and women of the Armed Forces, who 
     proudly serve the United States, risk their lives to protect 
     the freedom of the people of the United States and deserve 
     the investment of every possible resource to ensure their 
     lasting physical, mental, and emotional well-being;
       Whereas more than 2,000,000 members of the Armed Forces 
     have deployed overseas since the events of September 11, 
     2001, and have served in places such as Afghanistan and Iraq;
       Whereas the Armed Forces have sustained a historically high 
     operational tempo since September 11, 2001, with many members 
     of the Armed Forces deploying overseas multiple times, 
     placing those members at high risk of experiencing combat 
     stress;
       Whereas, when left untreated, exposure to traumatic combat 
     stress can lead to post-traumatic stress, sometimes referred 
     to as post-traumatic stress disorder (in this preamble 
     referred to as ``PTSD'') or post-traumatic stress injury;
       Whereas men and women of the Armed Forces and veterans who 
     served before September 11, 2001, remain at risk for post-
     traumatic stress;
       Whereas the Secretary of Veterans Affairs reports that 
     about 11-20 percent of veterans who served in Operation Iraqi 
     Freedom or Operation Enduring Freedom have PTSD in a given 
     year, about 12 percent of Gulf War veterans have PTSD in a 
     given year, and about 30 percent of Vietnam veterans have had 
     PTSD in their lifetime;
       Whereas many combat stress injuries remain unreported, 
     undiagnosed, and untreated due to a lack of awareness about 
     post-traumatic stress and the persistent stigma associated 
     with mental health conditions;
       Whereas exposure to military trauma can lead to post-
     traumatic stress;
       Whereas post-traumatic stress significantly increases the 
     risk of anxiety, depression, suicide, homelessness, and drug- 
     and alcohol-related disorders and deaths, especially if left 
     untreated;
       Whereas public perceptions of post-traumatic stress or 
     other mental health conditions create unique challenges for 
     veterans seeking employment;
       Whereas the Department of Defense and the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs, as well as the larger medical community, 
     both private and public, have made significant advances in 
     the identification, prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of 
     post-traumatic stress and the symptoms of post-traumatic 
     stress, but many challenges remain;
       Whereas increased understanding of post-traumatic stress 
     can help eliminate the stigma attached to the issue;
       Whereas additional efforts are needed to find further ways 
     to eliminate the stigma associated with post-traumatic 
     stress, including--
       (1) an examination of how post-traumatic stress is 
     discussed in the United States; and
       (2) a recognition that post-traumatic stress is a common 
     injury that is treatable and repairable;

       Whereas post-traumatic stress can result from any number of 
     stressors other than combat, including rape, sexual assault, 
     battery, torture, confinement, child abuse, car accidents, 
     train wrecks, plane crashes, bombings, or natural disasters, 
     and affects approximately 8,000,000 adults in the United 
     States annually;
       Whereas the diagnosis now known as PTSD was first defined 
     by the American Psychiatric Association in 1980 to commonly 
     and more accurately understand and treat veterans who had 
     endured severe traumatic combat stress;
       Whereas combat stress had previously been viewed as a 
     mental illness and the word ``disorder'' carries a stigma 
     that perpetuates this misconception; and
       Whereas the designation of a National Post-Traumatic Stress 
     Awareness Month and a National Post-Traumatic Stress 
     Awareness Day will raise public awareness about issues 
     related to post-traumatic stress, reduce the associated 
     stigma, and help ensure that those individuals suffering from 
     the invisible wounds of war receive proper treatment: Now, 
     therefore, be it
       Resolved, That the Senate--
       (1) designates June 2017, as ``National Post-Traumatic 
     Stress Awareness Month'' and June 27, 2017, as ``National 
     Post-Traumatic Stress Awareness Day'';
       (2) supports the efforts of the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs and the Secretary of Defense, as well as the entire 
     medical community, to educate members of the Armed Forces, 
     veterans, the families of members of the Armed Forces and 
     veterans, and the public about the causes, symptoms, and 
     treatment of post-traumatic stress;
       (3) welcomes the efforts of the National Center for PTSD of 
     the Department of Veterans Affairs and local Vet Centers (as 
     defined in section 1712A(h) of title 38, United States Code) 
     to provide assistance to veterans who are suffering from the 
     effects of post-traumatic stress;
       (4) encourages commanders of the Armed Forces to support 
     appropriate treatment of men and women of the Armed Forces 
     who suffer from post-traumatic stress; and
       (5) respectfully requests that the Secretary of the Senate 
     transmit a copy of this resolution to the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Defense.

                          ____________________



