

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3211-S3213]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. HOEVEN (for himself and Mr. Wyden):
       S. 1229. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide for Move America bonds and Move America credits; 
     to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr. Flake, Mr. Crapo, Mr. 
             Enzi, Mr. Gardner, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Heller, Mr. McCain, 
             and Mr. Risch):
       S. 1230. A bill to prohibit the conditioning of any permit, 
     lease, or other use agreement on the transfer of any water 
     right to the United States by the Secretaries of the Interior 
     and Agriculture, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Markey, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Udall, Mrs. 
             Feinstein, Mr. Franken, Ms. Harris, Mr. Van Hollen, 
             Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Sanders, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Heinrich, 
             Mr. Carper, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Coons, Ms. Warren, Mr. 
             Booker, and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 1231. A bill to amend the Help America Vote Act of 2002 
     to allow all eligible voters to vote by mail in Federal 
     elections, to amend the National Voter Registration Act of 
     1993 to provide for automatic voter registration; to the 
     Committee on Rules and Administration.
           By Mr. KING (for himself and Mr. Paul):
       S. 1232. A bill to amend the Federal Meat Inspection Act to 
     exempt from inspection the slaughter of animals and the 
     preparation of carcasses conducted at a custom slaughter 
     facility, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself and Mr. Franken):
       S. 1233. A bill to improve the efficiency and reliability 
     of rail transportation by reforming the Surface 
     Transportation Board, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. NELSON:
       S. 1234. A bill to amend the Water Resources Development 
     Act of 2000 to provide for expedited project implementation 
     relating to the comprehensive Everglades restoration plan; to 
     the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Franken, 
             and Mr. Merkley):
       S. 1235. A bill to reduce the number of nuclear-armed 
     submarines operated by the Navy, to prohibit the development 
     of a new long-range penetrating bomber aircraft, to prohibit 
     the procurement of new intercontinental ballistic missiles, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr. Casey):
       S. 1236. A bill to require the Attorney General to 
     designate Human Trafficking Coordinators for Federal judicial 
     districts, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself and Mr. Franken):
       S. 1237. A bill to amend title 11 of the United States Code 
     to clarify the rule allowing discharge as a nonpriority claim 
     of governmental claims arising from the disposition of farm 
     assets under chapter 12 bankruptcies; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Schumer, 
             Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Rounds, and Mr. 
             Merkley):
       S. 1238. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to increase and make permanent the exclusion for benefits 
     provided to volunteer firefighters and emergency medical 
     responders; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr. Cardin, and Mr. 
             Schumer):
       S. 1239. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to modify the rules applicable to length of service award 
     plans; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr. Franken, Ms. Warren, 
             Ms. Hassan, Mr. Wyden, and Mr. Warner):
       S. 1240. A bill to amend the Federal Power Act to establish 
     an Office of Public Participation and Consumer Advocacy; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. 
             Cornyn, and Mr. Whitehouse):
       S. 1241. A bill to improve the prohibitions on money 
     laundering, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. SANDERS (for himself, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Schumer, 
             Mr. Durbin, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Booker, 
             Mr. Brown, Ms. Cantwell, Ms. Duckworth, Mrs. 
             Gillibrand, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Franken, Ms. Harris, 
             Ms. Hirono, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Markey, Mr. 
             Merkley, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Peters, Mr. Reed, Mr. 
             Schatz, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Warren, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Cardin, and 
             Ms. Klobuchar):
       S. 1242. A bill to provide for increases in the Federal 
     minimum wage, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mrs. ERNST (for herself and Mrs. Gillibrand):
       S. 1243. A bill to require sexual assault prevention and 
     response training for all individuals enlisted in the Armed 
     Forces under a delayed entry program; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mr. SCHUMER (for Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mr. 
             Sullivan, Mr. Schatz, and Ms. Murkowski)):
       S. 1244. A bill to extend the authorization of 
     appropriations for additional funds for the essential air 
     service program; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mr. FRANKEN:
       S. 1245. A bill to award career pathways innovation grants 
     to local educational agencies and consortia of local 
     educational agencies, to provide technical assistance within 
     the Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education to 
     administer the grants and support the local educational 
     agencies with the preparation of grant applications and 
     management of grant funds, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. SCHUMER (for Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Ms. 
             Baldwin, Mr. Brown, Ms. Stabenow, and Mr. Durbin)):
       S. 1246. A bill to increase the participation of 
     historically underrepresented demographic groups in science, 
     technology, engineering, and mathematics education and 
     industry; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself and Mr. Warner):
       S. 1247. A bill to provide for loan repayment for teachers 
     in high-need schools; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.

[[Page S3212]]

  

           By Mr. HATCH (for himself, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Cornyn, and 
             Mr. Warner):
       S. 1248. A bill to amend title II of the Higher Education 
     Act of 1965; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
     and Pensions.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr. Nelson):
       S. 1249. A bill to authorize additional district court 
     judgeships for the northern, middle, and southern districts 
     of Florida; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr. Thune, and Mr. 
             Hoeven):
       S. 1250. A bill to amend the Indian Health Care Improvement 
     Act to improve the recruitment and retention of employees in 
     the Indian Health Service, restore accountability in the 
     Indian Health Service, improve health services, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mr. WARNER:
       S. 1251. A bill to require the Secretary of Labor to 
     establish a pilot program for providing portable benefits to 
     eligible workers, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. PAUL (for himself and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 1252. A bill to reclassify certain low-level felonies as 
     misdemeanors, to eliminate the increased penalties for 
     cocaine offenses where the cocaine involved is cocaine base, 
     to reinvest in our communities, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself, Mr. Warner, Mr. Heller, and 
             Mr. Wyden):
       S. 1253. A bill to improve the coordination and use of 
     geospatial data; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr. Peters, and Ms. 
             Baldwin):
       S. 1254. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to expand the small employer health insurance credit; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Ms. Hassan, and Mr. 
             Sanders):
       S. 1255. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to credit individuals serving as caregivers of dependent 
     relatives with deemed wages for up to five years of such 
     service, and to support State medical training programs for 
     caregivers; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Ms. Collins, Mr. King, Mr. 
             Inhofe, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Risch, Ms. Warren, and Mr. Kennedy):
       S. 1256. A bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal to the 
     23d Headquarters, Special Troops and the 3133rd Signal 
     Service Company in recognition of their unique and 
     distinguished service as a ``Ghost Army'' that conducted 
     deception operations in Europe during World War II; to the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mr. Grassley, Mrs. 
             Gillibrand, Mr. Franken, Mr. Peters, and Mr. 
             Blumenthal):
       S. 1257. A bill to amend title IV of the Social Security 
     Act to require States to adopt an electronic system to help 
     expedite the placement of children in foster care or 
     guardianship, or for adoption, across State lines, and to 
     provide funding to aid States in developing such a system, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mr. Van Hollen):
       S. 1258. A bill to require States to report to the Attorney 
     General certain information regarding use of force incidents 
     involving law enforcement officers and civilians, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. THUNE:
       S. 1259. A bill to improve and extend agricultural 
     commodity programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. COCHRAN (for himself and Mr. Wicker):
       S. 1260. A bill to authorize the exchange of certain 
     Federal land located in Gulf Islands National Seashore for 
     certain non-Federal land in Jackson County, Mississippi, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mr. CASSIDY:
       S. 1261. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to pay the 
     reasonable costs of urgent care provided to certain veterans, 
     to establish cost-sharing amounts for veterans receiving care 
     at an emergency room of the Department of Veterans Affairs, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. 
             Franken, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. Hirono, Ms. Warren, Mr. 
             Reed, Mr. Wyden, Ms. Baldwin, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Kaine, 
             and Mr. Murphy):
       S. 1262. A bill to amend title 11, United States Code, with 
     respect to certain exceptions to discharge in bankruptcy; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Nelson, 
             Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Markey, 
             Ms. Hassan, Ms. Warren, Mrs. Shaheen, and Mr. 
             Sanders):
       S. 1263. A bill to amend the Outer Continental Shelf Lands 
     Act to prohibit oil-, 
     gas-, and methane hydrate-related seismic activities in the 
     North Atlantic, Mid-Atlantic, South Atlantic, and Straits of 
     Florida planning areas of the outer Continental Shelf, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
     Resources.
           By Ms. COLLINS:
       S. 1264. A bill to amend the Federal Deposit Insurance Act 
     to allow the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to exempt 
     certain depository institutions from certain legal 
     requirements, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr. Sanders, and Mrs. 
             Gillibrand):
       S. 1265. A bill to amend the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 
     1982 to provide for the expansion of emergency planning zones 
     and the development of plans for dry cask storage of spent 
     nuclear fuel, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. INHOFE (for himself and Mr. Lankford):
       S. 1266. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to enter into contracts with nonprofit organizations 
     to investigate medical centers of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. ENZI (for himself, Mr. Barrasso, Mr. Hatch, Mr. 
             Gardner, and Mr. Udall):
       S. 1267. A bill to amend the Mineral Leasing Act to require 
     the Secretary of the Interior to convey to a State all right, 
     title, and interest in and to a percentage of the amount of 
     royalties and other amounts required to be paid to the State 
     under that Act with respect to public land and deposits in 
     the State, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr. Peters):
       S. 1268. A bill to amend parts B and E of title IV of the 
     Social Security Act to allow States to provide foster care 
     maintenance payments for children with parents in a licensed 
     residential family-based treatment facility for substance 
     abuse and to reauthorize grants to improve the well-being of 
     families affected by substance abuse; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Ms. STABENOW (for herself and Mr. Peters):
       S. 1269. A bill to require the Office of Pipeline Safety to 
     consult with the Environmental Protection Agency or the Coast 
     Guard in the event the Federal on-scene coordinator has 
     concerns about the ability of a pipeline operator to respond 
     to a worst case discharge; to the Committee on Commerce, 
     Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. SCHUMER (for Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, and Mr. Merkley)):
       S. 1270. A bill to direct the Director of the Office of 
     Science and Technology Policy to carry out programs and 
     activities to ensure that Federal science agencies and 
     institutions of higher education receiving Federal research 
     and development funding are fully engaging their entire 
     talent pool, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. BENNET (for himself and Mr. Gardner):
       S. 1271. A bill to designate certain mountain peaks in the 
     State of Colorado as ``Fowler Peak'' and ``Boskoff Peak''; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr. Lee, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, and Mr. Cotton):
       S. 1272. A bill to preserve State, local, and tribal 
     authorities and private property rights with respect to 
     unmanned aircraft systems, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. BLUNT (for himself, Ms. Stabenow, Mrs. 
             McCaskill, Mr. Moran, Mr. Peters, and Mr. Young):
       S. 1273. A bill to amend chapter 329 of title 49, United 
     States Code, relating to average fuel economy standards for 
     automobiles; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Mr. Coons, and Mr. 
             Perdue):
       S. 1274. A bill to direct the President to establish an 
     interagency mechanism to coordinate United States development 
     programs and private sector investment activities, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. HOEVEN:
       S. 1275. A bill to improve the housing conditions and 
     promote useful land uses within tribal communities, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
           By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr. Grassley, Mr. 
             Durbin, Mr. Tillis, and Mrs. Ernst):
       S. 1276. A bill to require the Attorney General to make a 
     determination as to whether cannabidiol should be a 
     controlled substance and listed in a schedule under the 
     Controlled Substances Act and to expand research on the 
     potential medical benefits of cannabidiol and other marihuana 
     components; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself, Mr. Heller, Mrs. Capito, 
             and Mr. Risch):
       S. 1277. A bill to require the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to carry out a high technology education pilot 
     program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. CARPER (for himself, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Booker, 
             Mr. Brown, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Coons, Ms. Cortez Masto, 
             Mr. Franken, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Hassan, Mr. Kaine, 
             Mr.

[[Page S3213]]

             Markey, Mrs. McCaskill, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Sanders, Mr. 
             Schatz, Mr. Schumer, Mr. Van Hollen, and Ms. Warren):
       S. 1278. A bill to provide for the admission of the State 
     of Washington, D.C. into the Union; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. CRAPO:
       S. 1279. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     furnish health care from the Department of Veterans Affairs 
     through the use of non-Department health care providers, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. SCOTT (for himself and Mr. Booker):
       S. 1280. A bill to help keep law enforcement officers and 
     communities safer by making grants to purchase body worn 
     cameras for use by State, local, and tribal law enforcement 
     officers; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. HASSAN (for herself, Mr. Portman, Mrs. 
             McCaskill, and Ms. Harris):
       S. 1281. A bill to establish a bug bounty pilot program 
     within the Department of Homeland Security, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr. Tester):
       S. 1282. A bill to redesignate certain clinics of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs located in Montana; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. MARKEY:
       S. 1283. A bill to authorize the award of a military 
     service medal to members of the Armed Forces who were exposed 
     to ionizing radiation as a result of participation in the 
     testing of nuclear weapons or under other circumstances; to 
     the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. HATCH (for himself, Mr. King, and Mr. Nelson):
       S. 1284. A bill to raise the consolidated assets threshold 
     under the small bank holding company policy statement, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. MERKLEY:
       S. 1285. A bill to allow the Confederated Tribes of Coos, 
     Lower Umpqua, and Siuslaw Indians, the Confederated Tribes of 
     the Grand Ronde Community of Oregon, the Confederated Tribes 
     of Siletz Indians of Oregon, the Confederated Tribes of Warm 
     Springs, and the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians to 
     lease or transfer certain lands; to the Committee on Indian 
     Affairs.
           By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr. Enzi, Mr. Leahy, Mr. 
             Flake, Mr. Durbin, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Warren, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Bennet, 
             Mr. Murphy, Mr. Paul, and Mr. King):
       S. 1286. A bill to lift the trade embargo on Cuba; to the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Moran, Mr. 
             Durbin, Mr. Enzi, Mr. Udall, Mr. Boozman, Mr. 
             Whitehouse, Ms. Collins, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Merkley, 
             Mr. Reed, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Coons, Mr. 
             Cardin, Mrs. Feinstein, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. Heitkamp, 
             Mr. Brown, Ms. Baldwin, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Schatz, Mr. 
             Markey, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. Paul, Mr. Wyden, Mr. 
             Kaine, Mr. King, Mr. Franken, Ms. Warren, Mr. Bennet, 
             Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Tester, Mr. Warner, 
             Ms. Cantwell, Mr. Blumenthal, Mrs. Murray, Mr. 
             Schumer, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Donnelly, 
             Mr. Cassidy, Mr. Peters, Mr. Carper, Mr. Manchin, Mr. 
             Van Hollen, Ms. Harris, Mr. Casey, Mr. Crapo, Ms. 
             Duckworth, Mr. Daines, Ms. Hassan, and Mr. Heller):
       S. 1287. A bill to allow United States citizens and legal 
     residents to travel between the United States and Cuba; to 
     the Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself and Ms. Murkowski):
       S. 1288. A bill to amend the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act to allow preservation leasing as a form of 
     compensatory mitigation for discharges of dredged or fill 
     material affecting Indian land, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself and Ms. Murkowski):
       S. 1289. A bill to amend the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act to exempt Indian tribes from compensatory 
     mitigation requirements in connection with certain discharges 
     of dredged or fill material, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. PAUL (for himself, Mr. Murphy, and Mr. Franken):
       S.J. Res. 42. A joint resolution relating to the 
     disapproval of the proposed export to the Government of the 
     Kingdom of Saudi Arabia of certain defense articles; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Relations.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself and Mr. Kaine):
       S.J. Res. 43. A joint resolution to authorize the use of 
     United States Armed Forces against al-Qaeda, the Taliban, and 
     the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, and associated persons 
     or forces, that are engaged in hostilities against the United 
     States, the Armed Forces, or its other personnel; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Relations.

                          ____________________



