

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 70 (Tuesday, April 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2845-H2847]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. KNIGHT:
       H.R. 2116. A bill to amend the Reclamation Wastewater and 
     Groundwater Study and Facilities Act to authorize the 
     Secretary of the Interior to participate in a series of water 
     reclamation projects to provide a new water supply to 
     communities previously impacted by perchlorate contamination 
     plumes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. SESSIONS (for himself and Mr. Pascrell):
       H.R. 2117. A bill to amend the Employee Retirement Income 
     Security Act of 1974 to permit multiemployer plans in 
     critical status to modify plan rules relating to withdrawal 
     liability, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania (for himself and Mr. 
             Peters):
       H.R. 2118. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to require the registration of establishments 
     that service devices, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for himself, Ms. Pelosi, 
             Mr. Aguilar, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. 
             Carbajal, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Cicilline, 
             Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
             Mr. Cohen, Mrs. Davis of California, Ms. DeGette, Ms. 
             DelBene, Mrs. Demings, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Engel, Mr. 
             Espaillat, Ms. Esty of Connecticut, Mr. Gallego, Mr. 
             Al Green of Texas, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Hastings, Mr. 
             Himes, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Keating, Mr. 
             Kildee, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Ms. 
             Lee, Mrs. Lowey, Mr. Lynch, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney 
             of New York, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, 
             Ms. Matsui, Ms. McCollum, Ms. Moore, Mr. Moulton, Mr. 
             Nadler, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. Pallone, Mr. 
             Panetta, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Peters, Ms. Pingree, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Quigley, Ms. Rosen, Mr. Rush, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Sinema, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Ms. Speier, Mr. Swalwell of California, 
             Mr. Takano, Ms. Tsongas, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Welch, Ms. Brownley 
             of California, Mr. Higgins of New York, Ms. Eshoo, 
             Mr. McGovern, and Mr. Schrader):
       H.R. 2119. A bill to prohibit, as an unfair or deceptive 
     act or practice, commercial sexual orientation conversion 
     therapy, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. PERRY:
       H.R. 2120. A bill to direct the Secretary of Transportation 
     to take actions to address

[[Page H2846]]

     issues affecting motorcoach and school bus operators, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. ROTHFUS (for himself, Mr. Foster, and Mr. 
             Hultgren):
       H.R. 2121. A bill to require the appropriate Federal 
     banking agencies to revise regulations to specify that 
     certain funds shall not be taken into account when 
     calculating any supplementary leverage ratio for custodial 
     banks, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself and Mr. Delaney):
       H.R. 2122. A bill to reinstate and extend the deadline for 
     commencement of construction of a hydroelectric project 
     involving Jennings Randolph Dam; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania (for himself, Ms. 
             Brownley of California, Mr. LoBiondo, and Mr. 
             Espaillat):
       H.R. 2123. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the ability of health care professionals to treat 
     veterans through the use of telemedicine, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself and Mr. Krishnamoorthi):
       H.R. 2124. A bill to require the Secretary of 
     Transportation to modify a regulation regarding denied 
     boarding on an aircraft, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. BRAT:
       H.R. 2125. A bill to amend the Congressional Budget Act of 
     1974 to provide that any estimate prepared by the 
     Congressional Budget Office or the Joint Committee on 
     Taxation shall include costs relating to servicing the public 
     debt, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Rules, and 
     in addition to the Committee on the Budget, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BUCHANAN:
       H.R. 2126. A bill to strengthen welfare research and 
     evaluation, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, and in addition to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. BUDD:
       H.R. 2127. A bill to amend the Labor-Management Reporting 
     and Disclosure Act of 1959 to require employee consent before 
     labor organization dues of such employee are used for any 
     purpose not directly related to the labor organization's 
     collective bargaining or contract administration functions; 
     to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. DAVIDSON:
       H.R. 2128. A bill to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 
     1934 to permit private persons to compel the Securities and 
     Exchange Commission to seek legal or equitable remedies in a 
     civil action, instead of an administrative proceeding, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. DEUTCH:
       H.R. 2129. A bill to establish the Climate Change Advisory 
     Commission to develop recommendations, frameworks, and 
     guidelines for projects to respond to the impacts of climate 
     change, to issue Federal obligations, the proceeds of which 
     shall be used to fund projects that aid in adaptation to 
     climate change, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, and Ways and Means, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. HARPER:
       H.R. 2130. A bill to award a Congressional Gold Medal to 
     Myrlie Evers-Williams, in recognition of the great 
     contributions and ultimate sacrifice she and her husband, the 
     assassinated civil rights leader Medgar Wiley Evers, made in 
     the fight for racial equality in the United States; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana (for himself and Mr. 
             McCaul):
       H.R. 2131. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 
     2002 to direct the Chief Human Capital Officer of the 
     Department of Homeland Security to improve consistency 
     regarding discipline and adverse actions in the Department's 
     workforce, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security.
           By Mr. KATKO (for himself, Mr. McCaul, and Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman):
       H.R. 2132. A bill to require the implementation of a 
     redress process and review of the Transportation Security 
     Administration's intelligence-based screening rules for 
     aviation security, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. LUETKEMEYER:
       H.R. 2133. A bill to provide regulatory relief to community 
     financial institutions, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. LUETKEMEYER (for himself and Mr. Sessions):
       H.R. 2134. A bill to amend the Endangered Species Act of 
     1973 to permit Governors of States to regulate intrastate 
     endangered species and intrastate threatened species, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself, 
             Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Nadler, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. 
             Tsongas, Mr. Crowley, Ms. DeLauro, Ms. Moore, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, and 
             Ms. Norton):
       H.R. 2135. A bill to designate certain National Forest 
     System lands and certain public lands under the jurisdiction 
     of the Secretary of the Interior in the States of Idaho, 
     Montana, Oregon, Washington, and Wyoming as wilderness, wild 
     and scenic rivers, wildland recovery areas, and biological 
     connecting corridors, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York:
       H.R. 2136. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide an exception from certain reporting 
     requirements with respect to the foreign accounts of 
     individuals who live abroad; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. MAST:
       H.R. 2137. A bill to direct the President to treat a 
     harmful algal bloom caused by certain activities of the 
     Federal Government as an emergency for purposes of the Robert 
     T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. McCAUL:
       H.R. 2138. A bill to provide that members of the Armed 
     Forces performing services in the Sinai Peninsula of Egypt 
     shall be entitled to tax benefits in the same manner as if 
     such services were performed in a combat zone; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. MOORE:
       H.R. 2139. A bill to amend the FAA Modernization and Reform 
     Act of 2012 and title 49, United States Code, with respect to 
     disadvantaged business enterprises, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. RUPPERSBERGER:
       H.R. 2140. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to increase the credit for employers establishing 
     workplace child care facilities, to increase the child care 
     credit to encourage greater use of quality child care 
     services, to provide incentives for students to earn child 
     care-related degrees and to work in child care facilities, 
     and to increase the exclusion for employer-provided dependent 
     care assistance; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SCHNEIDER (for himself and Mr. Issa):
       H.R. 2141. A bill to provide incentives to physicians to 
     practice in rural and medically underserved communities and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. TSONGAS (for herself and Mr. Fitzpatrick):
       H.R. 2142. A bill to improve the ability of U.S. Customs 
     and Border Protection to interdict fentanyl, other synthetic 
     opioids, and other narcotics and psychoactive substances that 
     are illegally imported into the United States, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. VARGAS:
       H.R. 2143. A bill to impose a net worth tax of 14.25 
     percent on all individuals and trusts with a net worth of 
     $10,000,000 or more; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. MIMI WALTERS of California (for herself and Ms. 
             Kuster of New Hampshire):
       H.R. 2144. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to provide for the appropriate, risk-based 
     classification of device accessories based on their intended 
     uses; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California:
       H.R. 2145. A bill to prohibit licenses or other 
     authorization for United States persons to engage in 
     activities relating to deepwater, Arctic offshore, or shale 
     projects that have the potential to produce oil in the 
     Russian Federation, or in maritime area claimed by the 
     Russian Federation, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN (for herself, Mr. Deutch, Mr. 
             Chabot, Mr. Engel, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, and Mr. 
             Schneider):
       H. Res. 274. A resolution condemning the Government of 
     Iran's state-sponsored persecution of its Baha'i minority and 
     its continued violation of the International Covenants on 
     Human Rights; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania (for himself, 
             Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Deutch, Mr. 
             Engel, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. 
             Ted Lieu of California, Mrs. Lowey, Mrs. Carolyn B. 
             Maloney of New York, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Nadler, Mr. 
             Pallone, Mr. Pascrell, Ms. Rosen, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, 
             Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Sires, Mr. Suozzi, Ms. Velazquez, 
             Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Weber of Texas, Ms. Wilson 
             of Florida, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Levin, and Mr. 
             Gottheimer):
       H. Res. 276. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     that more should be done to instill Holocaust education in 
     school curricula around the country; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Foreign Affairs,

[[Page H2847]]

     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CARDENAS (for himself, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. 
             Hastings, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Loebsack, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Payne, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. 
             Vargas, and Mr. Walz):
       H. Res. 277. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of April 2017 as National Stress Awareness Month; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SWALWELL of California (for himself, Mr. Pearce, 
             and Mr. Crawford):
       H. Res. 278. A resolution amending the Rules of the House 
     of Representatives to permit absent Members to participate in 
     committee hearings using video conferencing and related 
     technologies and to establish a remote voting system under 
     which absent Members may cast votes in the House on motions 
     to suspend the rules; to the Committee on Rules.

                          ____________________



