

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 106 (Wednesday, June 21, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 106 (Wednesday, June 21, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3686]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. ROUNDS (for himself, Mr. Casey, and Mr. Booker):
       S. 1387. A bill to require the Secretary of Defense to 
     implement processes and procedures to provide expedited 
     evaluation and treatment for prenatal surgery under the 
     TRICARE program; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. ROUNDS:
       S. 1388. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     repeal the requirement for voting assistance officers for 
     members of the Armed Forces; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services.
           By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Tester, Mr. 
             Blumenthal, Mr. Kaine, Ms. Duckworth, Ms. Warren, Ms. 
             Baldwin, Mr. Franken, Ms. Klobuchar, Ms. Cortez 
             Masto, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Menendez, Ms. Hirono, and 
             Mr. Durbin):
       S. 1389. A bill to allow the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
     Protection to provide greater protection to servicemembers; 
     to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. COONS (for himself, Mr. Cotton, Mr. Durbin, and 
             Ms. Hirono):
       S. 1390. A bill to strengthen the position of the United 
     States as the world's leading innovator by amending title 35, 
     United States Code, to protect the property rights of the 
     inventors that grow the country's economy; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. HIRONO (for herself and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 1391. A bill to amend title IV of the Personal 
     Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 
     1996 to restore Medicaid coverage for citizens of the Freely 
     Associated States lawfully residing in the United States 
     under the Compacts of Free Association between the Government 
     of the United States and the Governments of the Federated 
     States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, 
     and the Republic of Palau; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. HATCH:
       S. 1392. A bill to establish the Public-Private Partnership 
     Advisory Council to End Human Trafficking to advise the 
     Senior Policy Operating Group and the President's Interagency 
     Task Force to Monitor and Combat Trafficking; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Ms. Warren, and Mr. 
             Tillis):
       S. 1393. A bill to streamline the process by which active 
     duty military, reservists, and veterans receive commercial 
     driver's licenses; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mr. CRUZ:
       S. 1394. A bill to apply the medical certification 
     standards of the Federal Aviation Administration to operators 
     of air balloons; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
           By Mr. CARPER (for himself and Mr. Coons):
       S. 1395. A bill to revise the boundaries of certain John H. 
     Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System units in Delaware; to 
     the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr. Cornyn, Ms. Duckworth, 
             and Mr. Tillis):
       S. 1396. A bill to require that certain standards for 
     commercial driver's licenses applicable to former members of 
     the armed services or reserves also apply to current members 
     of the armed services or reserves; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. STRANGE (for himself, Mr. Cruz, and Mr. Cornyn):
       S. 1397. A bill to nullify any generalized, routine or 
     ongoing reporting requirement imposed on a person licensed 
     under section 923 of title 18, United States Code, that is 
     based on the geographic location in which the licensee is 
     located or on the sale of multiple rifles or shotguns, or any 
     specific type of rifle or shotgun, to the same person; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr. Peters, Ms. Baldwin, 
             Mr. Brown, Mr. Franken, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Durbin, 
             Ms. Duckworth, and Mrs. Gillibrand):
       S. 1398. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Army, acting 
     through the Chief of Engineers, to release an interim report 
     related to aquatic nuisance species control, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Ms. Hirono, and Mr. 
             Blunt):
       S. 1399. A bill to provide high-skilled nonimmigrant visas 
     for nationals of the Republic of Korea, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself, Mr. Flake, Mr. Udall, Mr. 
             McCain, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Daines, Mr. Tester, and Ms. 
             Murkowski):
       S. 1400. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     enhance protections of Native American tangible cultural 
     heritage, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Indian 
     Affairs.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself and Mr. Booker):
       S. 1401. A bill to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to 
     address lead contamination in school drinking water; to the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Ms. Heitkamp):
       S. 1402. A bill to amend the Richard B. Russell National 
     School Lunch Act to require the Secretary of Agriculture to 
     make loan guarantees and grants to finance certain 
     improvements to school lunch facilities, to train school food 
     service personnel, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
           By Mr. McCAIN (for himself, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Udall, and 
             Mr. Alexander):
       S. 1403. A bill to amend the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 
     to establish the 21st Century Conservation Service Corps to 
     place youth and veterans in national service positions to 
     conserve, restore, and enhance the great outdoors of the 
     United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CRUZ:
       S. 1404. A bill to amend the Natural Gas Act to provide for 
     expanded natural gas exports; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Natural Resources.

                          ____________________



