

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4668-S4669]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 104

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, the name of the Senator from 
Oregon (Mr. Merkley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 104, a bill to 
provide for the vacating of certain convictions and expungement of 
certain arrests of victims of human trafficking.


                                 S. 114

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) and the Senator from Maine (Ms. Collins) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 114, to authorize appropriations and to appropriate 
amounts for the Veterans Choice Program of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, to improve hiring authorities of the Department, to authorize 
major medical facility leases, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 194

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 194, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to establish a public health insurance 
option, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 236, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic 
beverages.


                                 S. 256

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 256, a bill 
to establish the Stop, Observe, Ask, and Respond to Health and Wellness 
Training pilot program to address human trafficking in the health care 
system.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. Schumer) and the Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 322, a bill to protect victims of domestic 
violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating violence from emotional 
and psychological trauma caused by acts of violence or threats of 
violence against their pets.


                                 S. 364

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Colorado (Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 364, a bill to 
amend the Food Security Act of 1985 to exempt certain recipients of 
Department of Agriculture conservation assistance from certain 
reporting requirements, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 445, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure more timely access to home 
health services for Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 690

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 690, a bill to extend 
the eligibility of redesignated areas as HUBZones from 3 years to 7 
years.


                                 S. 697

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 697, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to lower the mileage threshold for deduction in 
determining adjusted gross income of certain expenses of members of 
reserve components of the Armed Forces, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 705

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 705, a bill to amend the 
National Child Protection Act of 1993 to establish a national criminal 
history background check system and criminal history review program for 
certain individuals who, related to their employment, have access to 
children, the elderly, or individuals with disabilities, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mrs. Gillibrand, her name was withdrawn as a 
cosponsor of S. 720, a bill to amend the Export Administration Act of 
1979 to include in the prohibitions on boycotts against allies of the 
United States boycotts fostered by international governmental 
organizations against Israel and to direct the Export-Import Bank of 
the United States to oppose boycotts against Israel, and for other 
purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) was added as a cosponsor of S. 720, supra.


                                 S. 796

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 796, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the exclusion for employer-
provided education assistance to employer payments of student loans.


                                 S. 929

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 929, a bill to improve 
the HUBZone program.


                                S. 1038

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1038, a bill to require 
the Administrator of the Small Business Administration to submit to 
Congress a report on the utilization of small businesses with respect 
to certain Federal contracts.


                                S. 1118

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1118, a bill to reauthorize the 
North Korea Human Rights Act of 2004, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1196

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S.

[[Page S4669]]

1196, a bill to expand the capacity and capability of the ballistic 
missile defense system of the United States, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1270

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1270, a bill to direct 
the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy to carry 
out programs and activities to ensure that Federal science agencies and 
institutions of higher education receiving Federal research and 
development funding are fully engaging their entire talent pool, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1428

  At the request of Mr. Risch, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1428, a bill 
to amend section 21 of the Small Business Act to require cyber 
certification for small business development center counselors, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1522

  At the request of Mr. Heinrich, the names of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Udall) and the Senator from Maine (Ms. Collins) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1522, a bill to establish an Every Kid Outdoors 
program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1586

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1586, a bill to require 
the Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere to update periodically 
the environmental sensitivity index products of the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration for each coastal area of the Great 
Lakes, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1595

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1595, a bill to 
amend the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015 to 
impose additional sanctions with respect to Hizballah, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1598

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the names of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) and the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Merkley) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1598, a bill to amend title 38, United States Code, 
to make certain improvements in the laws administered by the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1652

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1652, a bill to amend the 
Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 and the Portal-to-Portal Act of 1947 
to prevent wage theft and assist in the recovery of stolen wages, to 
authorize the Secretary of Labor to administer grants to prevent wage 
and hour violations, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1674

  At the request of Mr. Reed, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1674, a bill to provide 
grants for the repair, renovation, and construction of public 
elementary schools and secondary schools, to establish a school 
infrastructure bond program, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 220

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 220, a 
resolution expressing solidarity with Falun Gong practitioners who have 
lost lives, freedoms, and rights for adhering to their beliefs and 
practices and condemning the practice of non-consenting organ 
harvesting, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 233

  At the request of Mr. McConnell, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. Res. 233, a resolution designating August 16, 2017, as ``National 
Airborne Day''.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 436

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 436 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 448

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from California 
(Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 448 intended to 
be proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2018 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 681

  At the request of Mr. Johnson, the name of the Senator from Kentucky 
(Mr. Paul) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 681 intended to be 
proposed to H.R. 2810, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2018 
for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes.

                          ____________________



