

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 85 (Wednesday, May 17, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3004]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          NATIONAL POLICE WEEK

  Mr. BOOKER. Mr. President, today, with great humility during National 
Police Week, I wish to recognize the brave men and women of law 
enforcement across the country. These individuals have answered the 
call to serve and every day they put their lives on the line to keep 
our communities safe. I especially want to honor those who have lost 
their lives in the line of duty and observe the sacrifices of their 
families.
  First, I especially want to recognize three law enforcement officers 
who lost their lives in New Jersey last year. These three men made the 
ultimate sacrifice for their communities, and we owe them and their 
families our sincerest respect. On July 1, 2016, the New Jersey 
Department of Corrections lost Nikeelan ``Nick'' Semmon. On March 7, 
2016, the New Jersey State Police lost Sean Cullen. On December 5, 
2016, the New Jersey State Police also lost Frankie Williams.
  These officers dedicated their lives to protecting our communities, 
and they served our State with valor and integrity. I feel privileged 
to call them fellow New Jerseyans, and my thoughts and prayers continue 
to be with the family and friends of these brave public servants. As we 
continue to mourn and remember Officer Semmon, Trooper Cullen, and 
Trooper Williams, let us pledge to honor their sacrifice by working 
every day to emulate their devotion to public service through acts of 
service and love.
  It is in that spirit that I want to talk about the important work 
that still needs to be done to support law enforcement. Congress plays 
a critical role in supporting law enforcement, both at the Federal 
level and at the State and local level. There are few bills I want to 
mention that I believe we must pass to uphold our commitment to brave 
men and women in law enforcement.
  First, on February 16, 2017, I introduced the bipartisan Law 
Enforcement Officers' Equity Act. Unfortunately, due to a technical 
error, nearly 30,000 Federal law enforcement officers classified as GS-
0083 police officers did not receive enhanced benefits under the U.S. 
Code. For example, certain officers who work for Federal agencies, such 
as the Department of Defense, Department of Veterans Affairs, Federal 
Bureau of Investigation, U.S. Postal Service, U.S. Mint, National 
Institute of Health and many more, receive lower pensions as compared 
to other law enforcement officers with similar responsibilities.
  The Law Enforcement Officers' Equity Act would expand the definition 
of ``law enforcement officer'' for retirement purposes to include all 
Federal law enforcement officers. The change would grant law 
enforcement officer status to the follow individuals: employees who are 
authorized to carry a firearm and whose duties include the 
investigation and/or apprehension of suspected criminals; employees of 
the Internal Revenue Service whose duties are primarily the collection 
of delinquent taxes and securing delinquent returns; employees of the 
U.S Postal Inspection Service; and employees of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs who are department police offices. These officers face 
the same risks and challenges as the men and women currently classified 
properly under Federal law as law enforcement officers, and they 
deserve the same benefits. We must pass this bill.
  I am also a proud cosponsor of the Children of Fallen Heroes 
Scholarship Act. This legislation would increase the amount of Pell 
grant funds available to children of fallen law enforcement officers, 
firefighters, EMS workers, and fire police. First responders across the 
country put their lives on the line every day to keep us safe. When 
most people are running away from danger, they are running towards it. 
For those who put themselves in danger on a daily basis, we must honor 
their sacrifice and support their families in times of tragedy. Helping 
children of first responders pay for an education is the least we can 
do to honor the sacrifice of someone who fell in the line of duty. We 
must pass this bill.
  I am also a cosponsor of the Law Enforcement Mental Health and 
Wellness Act of 2017, which I am pleased to say passed the Senate 
yesterday. We all know the stress and unique challenges police officers 
across our Nation face in doing their jobs. They risk their lives and 
are often exposed to traumatizing incidents. The Federal Government 
must do all it can to support police who suffer from trauma or other 
mental health issues due to the rigors and dangers of their job. The 
Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act of 2017 would direct the 
Department of Justice and the Department of Health and Human Resources 
to provide support to State and local law enforcement to access mental 
healthcare services and make sure that hotlines are available for 
officers who are in need of help. I hope the House of Representatives 
takes up this bill soon and passes it.
  I am proud to sponsor the Law Enforcement Officers' Equity Act and 
cosponsor the Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Act and Law 
Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act. There is so much work for 
us to do to live up to our commitment to law enforcement across the 
country, and I am committed to continuing to work with my colleagues on 
these critical issues. Thank you.

                          ____________________



