

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 69 (Monday, April 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 69 (Monday, April 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2491-S2494]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 29

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 29, a bill to 
permit disabled law enforcement officers, customs and border protection 
officers, firefighters, air traffic controllers, nuclear materials 
couriers, members of the Capitol Police, members of the Supreme Court 
Police, employees of the Central Intelligence Agency performing 
intelligence activities abroad or having specialized security 
requirements, and diplomatic security special agents of the Department 
of State to receive retirement benefits in the same manner as if they 
had not been disabled.


                                 S. 66

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 66, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to permit certain retired members of the 
uniformed services who have a service-connected disability to receive 
both disability compensation from the Department of Veterans Affairs 
for their disability and either retired pay by reason of their years of 
military service or Combat-Related Special Compensation, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 103

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Wyoming (Mr. 
Enzi) was added as a cosponsor of S. 103, a bill to nullify certain 
regulations and notices of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 109

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 109, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for coverage under 
the Medicare program of pharmacist services.


                                 S. 170

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Washington 
(Ms. Cantwell) and the Senator from Iowa (Mrs. Ernst) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 170, a bill to provide for nonpreemption of measures 
by State and local governments to divest from entities that engage in 
commerce-related or investment-related boycott, divestment, or 
sanctions activities targeting Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 188

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 188, a bill to prohibit the 
use of Federal funds for the costs of painting portraits of officers 
and employees of the Federal Government.


                                 S. 205

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 205, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the estate and generation-
skipping transfer taxes, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 206

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 206, a bill to 
amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to allow the Secretary of 
Education to award job training Federal Pell Grants.


                                 S. 208

  At the request of Mr. King, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 208, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to make the Child and Dependent Care Tax 
Credit fully refundable, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the names of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth), the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. Hassan), the 
Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono) and the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. 
Kennedy) were added as cosponsors of S. 236, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic 
beverages.


                                 S. 264

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 264, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow charitable organizations to make 
statements relating to political campaigns if such statements are made 
in ordinary course of carrying out its tax exempt purpose.


                                 S. 272

  At the request of Mr. Schatz, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 272, a bill to enhance 
the security operations of the Transportation Security Administration 
and the stability of the transportation security workforce by applying 
a unified personnel system under title 5, United States Code, to 
employees of the Transportation Security Administration who are 
responsible for screening passengers and property, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 283

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 283, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to provide for the treatment of veterans who 
participated in the cleanup of Enewetak Atoll as radiation exposed 
veterans for purposes of the presumption of service-connection of 
certain disabilities by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 319

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. 
Warren) were added as cosponsors of S. 319, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
establish within the Department of Veterans Affairs a center of 
excellence in the prevention, diagnosis, mitigation, treatment, and 
rehabilitation of health conditions relating to exposure to burn pits.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins) was added as a cosponsor of S. 322, a bill to protect victims 
of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating violence 
from emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts of violence or 
threats of violence against their pets.
  At the request of Mr. Peters, the names of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Booker) and the Senator 
from Minnesota (Mr. Franken) were added as cosponsors of S. 322, supra.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the names of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy), the Senator from Washington (Mrs. Murray) and 
the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added as cosponsors of 
S. 324, a bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the 
provision of adult day health care services for veterans.
  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the names of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr) and the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 324, supra.


                                 S. 339

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the names of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen), the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) and the 
Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) were added as cosponsors of S. 
339, a bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to repeal the 
requirement for reduction of survivor annuities under the Survivor 
Benefit Plan by veterans' dependency and indemnity compensation, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 367

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 367, a bill to amend section 
3606 of title 18, United States Code, to grant probation officers 
authority to arrest hostile third parties who obstruct or impede a 
probation officer in the performance of official duties.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to amend the 
Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise

[[Page S2492]]

arriving through the mail shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs 
and Border Protection and to require the provision of advance 
electronic information on shipments of mail to U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection and for other purposes.


                                 S. 374

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the names of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) and the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Burr) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 374, a bill to enable concrete masonry products 
manufacturers to establish, finance, and carry out a coordinated 
program of research, education, and promotion to improve, maintain, and 
develop markets for concrete masonry products.


                                 S. 379

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from 
Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 379, a bill to 
amend title II of the Social Security Act to eliminate the five month 
waiting period for disability insurance benefits under such title for 
individuals with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.


                                 S. 382

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) and the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Carper) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 382, a bill to require the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services to develop a voluntary registry to collect 
data on cancer incidence among firefighters.


                                 S. 384

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Portman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 384, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the new markets tax 
credit, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the names of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) and the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 407, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to permanently extend the railroad track maintenance credit.


                                 S. 423

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 423, a bill 
to amend title 38, United States Code, to increase the maximum age for 
children eligible for medical care under the CHAMPVA program, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 455

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 455, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to count resident time 
spent in a critical access hospital as resident time spent in a 
nonprovider setting for purposes of making Medicare direct and indirect 
graduate medical education payments.


                                 S. 459

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 459, a bill to designate 
the area between the intersections of Wisconsin Avenue, Northwest and 
Davis Street, Northwest and Wisconsin Avenue, Northwest and Edmunds 
Street, Northwest in Washington, District of Columbia, as ``Boris 
Nemtsov Plaza'', and for other purposes.


                                 S. 479

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the names of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin), the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse), the 
Senator from Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) and the Senator from Missouri (Mr. 
Blunt) were added as cosponsors of S. 479, a bill to amend title XVIII 
of the Social Security Act to waive coinsurance under Medicare for 
colorectal cancer screening tests, regardless of whether therapeutic 
intervention is required during the screening.


                                 S. 482

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 482, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to treat certain amounts paid for 
physical activity, fitness, and exercise as amounts paid for medical 
care.


                                 S. 493

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt), the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Burr), the Senator 
from Utah (Mr. Hatch), the Senator from Arizona (Mr. McCain) and the 
Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Boozman) were added as cosponsors of S. 493, 
a bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to provide for the 
removal or demotion of employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
based on performance or misconduct, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 512

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Utah 
(Mr. Hatch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 512, a bill to modernize the 
regulation of nuclear energy.


                                 S. 538

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Shelby) was added as a cosponsor of S. 538, a bill to clarify 
research and development for wood products, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mr. Corker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 540, a bill to limit the 
authority of States to tax certain income of employees for employment 
duties performed in other States.


                                 S. 546

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Bennet) was added as a cosponsor of S. 546, a bill to reduce 
temporarily the royalty required to be paid for sodium produced on 
Federal lands, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 553

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 553, a bill 
to provide that chapter 1 of title 9 of the United States Code, 
relating to the enforcement of arbitration agreements, shall not apply 
to enrollment agreements made between students and certain institutions 
of higher education, and to prohibit limitations on the ability of 
students to pursue claims against certain institutions of higher 
education.


                                 S. 568

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the names of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) and the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 568, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to count a period of receipt of outpatient 
observation services in a hospital toward satisfying the 3-day 
inpatient hospital requirement for coverage of skilled nursing facility 
services under Medicare.


                                 S. 573

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the names of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 573, a bill to establish the National 
Criminal Justice Commission.


                                 S. 591

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 591, a bill to 
expand eligibility for the program of comprehensive assistance for 
family caregivers of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to expand 
benefits available to participants under such program, to enhance 
special compensation for members of the uniformed services who require 
assistance in everyday life, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 601

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 601, a bill to ensure 
that significantly more students graduate college with the 
international knowledge and experience essential for success in today's 
global economy through the establishment of the Senator Paul Simon 
Study Abroad Program in the Department of Education.


                                 S. 602

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. 602, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to include automated fire sprinkler 
system retrofits as section 179 property and classify certain automated 
fire sprinkler system retrofits as 15-year property for purposes of 
depreciation.


                                 S. 628

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from New York

[[Page S2493]]

(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 628, a bill to amend 
the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 to raise 
the quality of career and technical education programs and to allow 
local eligible recipients to use funding to establish high-quality 
career academies.


                                 S. 632

  At the request of Mr. Coons, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper) was added as a cosponsor of S. 632, a bill to amend title 
28 of the United States Code to authorize the appointment of additional 
bankruptcy judges; and for other purposes.


                                 S. 636

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 636, a bill to allow 
Americans to earn paid sick time so that they can address their own 
health needs and the health needs of their families.


                                 S. 652

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 652, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to reauthorize a program for early detection, 
diagnosis, and treatment regarding deaf and hard-of-hearing newborns, 
infants, and young children.
  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 652, supra.


                                 S. 681

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from California 
(Ms. Harris) was added as a cosponsor of S. 681, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to improve the benefits and services provided 
by the Department of Veterans Affairs to women veterans, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 682

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 682, a bill 
to amend title 31, United States Code, to require the Secretary of the 
Treasury to provide for the purchase of paper United States savings 
bonds with tax refunds.


                                 S. 708

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. Schumer) and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Portman) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 708, a bill to improve the ability of U.S. Customs and 
Border Protection to interdict fentanyl, other synthetic opioids, and 
other narcotics and psychoactive substances that are illegally imported 
into the United States, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 712

  At the request of Mr. Blumenthal, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 712, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to reform the rights and processes relating to 
appeals of decisions regarding claims for benefits under the laws 
administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. Heller), the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Moran) and the Senator from 
Idaho (Mr. Crapo) were added as cosponsors of S. 720, a bill to amend 
the Export Administration Act of 1979 to include in the prohibitions on 
boycotts against allies of the United States boycotts fostered by 
international governmental organizations against Israel and to direct 
the Export-Import Bank of the United States to oppose boycotts against 
Israel, and for other purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Ms. Cantwell) was added as a cosponsor of S. 720, supra.


                                 S. 751

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 751, a bill to amend 
title 54, United States Code, to establish, fund, and provide for the 
use of amounts in a National Park Service Legacy Restoration Fund to 
address the maintenance backlog of the National Park Service, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 766

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen), the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Perdue), the 
Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds) and the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp) were added as cosponsors of S. 766, a bill to 
amend titles 10 and 32, United States Code, to improve and enhance 
authorities relating to the employment, use, status, and benefits of 
military technicians (dual status), and for other purposes.


                                 S. 794

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Roberts) was added as a cosponsor of S. 794, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act in order to improve the process 
whereby Medicare administrative contractors issue local coverage 
determinations under the Medicare program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 796

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 796, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the exclusion for employer-
provided education assistance to employer payments of student loans.


                                 S. 806

  At the request of Mr. Sanders, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 806, a bill to amend the 
Higher Education Act to ensure College for All.


                                 S. 830

  At the request of Mr. Cassidy, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 830, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for the coordination 
of programs to prevent and treat obesity, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 833

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 833, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to expand health care and benefits from the 
Department of Veterans Affairs for military sexual trauma, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 836

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 836, a bill to 
amend the Federal Credit Union Act to exclude a loan secured by a non-
owner occupied 1- to 4-family dwelling from the definition of a member 
business loan, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 856

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the names of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. Brown) and the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Whitehouse) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 856, a bill to amend the Higher Education Act 
of 1965 and the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and 
Campus Crime Statistics Act to combat campus sexual assault, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 861

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. 
Hassan) were added as cosponsors of S. 861, a bill to provide for the 
compensation of Federal employees affected by lapses in appropriations.


                                 S. 881

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 881, a bill to reduce 
risks to the financial system by limiting banks' ability to engage in 
certain risky activities and limiting conflicts of interest, to 
reinstate certain Glass-Steagall Act protections that were repealed by 
the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 882

  At the request of Mr. Rounds, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 882, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to provide for the entitlement to educational 
assistance under the Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Program of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs for members of the Armed Forces awarded 
the Purple Heart, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 897

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S.

[[Page S2494]]

897, a bill to protect civilians from cluster munitions, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 898

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 898, a bill to provide 
incentives to physicians to practice in rural and medically underserved 
communities, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 900

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the names of the Senator from 
Washington (Mrs. Murray) and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Cardin) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 900, a bill to improve the Federal Pell 
Grant program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 905

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the names of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Merkley), the Senator from Delaware (Mr. Coons), the Senator from 
Virginia (Mr. Kaine), the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), the 
Senator from Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar), the Senator from Michigan (Mr. 
Peters), the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), the Senator 
from New Jersey (Mr. Booker), the Senator from California (Mrs. 
Feinstein), the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey), the Senator 
from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand), the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Bennet) 
and the Senator from Ohio (Mr. Brown) were added as cosponsors of S. 
905, a bill to require a report on, and to authorize technical 
assistance for, accountability for war crimes, crimes against humanity, 
and genocide in Syria, and for other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 8

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 8, a joint 
resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United 
States relating to contributions and expenditures intended to affect 
elections.


                             S. CON. RES. 6

  At the request of Mr. Barrasso, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 6, a 
concurrent resolution supporting the Local Radio Freedom Act.


                            S. CON. RES. 12

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the names of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Whitehouse), the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey), 
the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey), the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons), the Senator from Florida (Mr. Rubio) and the Senator from 
Florida (Mr. Nelson) were added as cosponsors of S. Con. Res. 12, a 
concurrent resolution expressing the sense of Congress that those who 
served in the bays, harbors, and territorial seas of the Republic of 
Vietnam during the period beginning on January 9, 1962, and ending on 
May 7, 1975, should be presumed to have served in the Republic of 
Vietnam for all purposes under the Agent Orange Act of 1991.


                               S. RES. 75

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the names of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Cassidy) and the Senator from Maryland (Mr. Cardin) were 
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 75, a resolution recognizing the 100th 
anniversary of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, the largest 
organization of food and nutrition professionals in the world.

                          ____________________



