

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 69 (Monday, April 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 69 (Monday, April 24, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2490]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. Baldwin, 
             Mr. Sanders, Mr. Franken, Mr. Udall, Mr. Whitehouse, 
             Mr. Markey, Mr. Leahy, Ms. Duckworth, and Ms. 
             Hassan):
       S. 912. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to establish a free on-line tax preparation and filing 
     service and programs that allow taxpayers to access third-
     party provided tax return information; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. KING (for himself, Ms. Collins, and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 913. A bill to amend the Older Americans Act of 1965 to 
     establish an initiative, carried out by the Assistant 
     Secretary for Aging, to coordinate Federal efforts and 
     programs for home modifications enabling older individuals to 
     live independently and safely in a home environment, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
     and Pensions.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Mr. Portman):
       S. 914. A bill to improve and coordinate interagency 
     Federal actions and provide assistance to States for 
     responding to public health challenges posed by emerging 
     contaminants, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Ms. Collins, Ms. Murkowski, 
             Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Heller, and Mrs. McCaskill):
       S. 915. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security Act 
     to repeal the Government pension offset and windfall 
     elimination provisions; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Blunt, and 
             Mr. Franken):
       S. 916. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act with 
     regard to the provision of emergency medical services; to the 
     Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Mrs. McCaskill):
       S. 917. A bill to amend title 36, United States Code, to 
     designate May 1 as ``Silver Star Service Banner Day''; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Mr. Isakson, Mr. Lee, Mr. 
             Barrasso, Ms. Murkowski, and Mr. Daines):
       S. 918. A bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to 
     provide for automatic continuing resolutions; to the 
     Committee on Appropriations.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself and Mr. Lankford):
       S. 919. A bill to amend title 5, United States Code, to 
     postpone the effective date of high-impact rules pending 
     judicial review; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Ms. Collins):
       S. 920. A bill to establish a National Clinical Care 
     Commission; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. MORAN (for himself and Mr. Roberts):
       S. 921. A bill to require the Secretary of Treasury to mint 
     coins in commemoration of the 100 year anniversary of the 1st 
     Infantry Division; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
     Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. DURBIN:
       S. 922. A bill to establish the Climate Change Advisory 
     Commission to develop recommendations, frameworks, and 
     guidelines for projects to respond to the impacts of climate 
     change, to issue Federal obligations, the proceeds of which 
     shall be used to fund projects that aid in adaptation to 
     climate change, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. KENNEDY:
       S. 923. A bill to exempt certain financial institutions 
     from regulations issued under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street 
     Reform and Consumer Protection Act; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Reed, Mr. 
             Coons, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Booker, and Mr. Schatz):
       S. 924. A bill to improve diversity and inclusion in the 
     workforce of national security agencies, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.

                          ____________________



