

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4765-S4766]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF COMMITTEES

  The following executive reports of nominations were submitted:

       By Mr. ROBERTS for the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
     and Forestry.
       *Brian D. Quintenz, of Ohio, to be a Commissioner of the 
     Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a term expiring 
     April 13, 2020.
       *Dawn DeBerry Stump, of Texas, to be a Commissioner of the 
     Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a term expiring 
     April 13, 2022.
       *Rostin Behnam, of New Jersey, to be a Commissioner of the 
     Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a term expiring June 
     19, 2021.
       By Mr. McCAIN for the Committee on Armed Services.
       Air Force nomination of Brig. Gen. Mark D. Camerer, to be 
     Major General.
       Navy nomination of Rear Adm. DeWolfe H. Miller III, to be 
     Vice Admiral.
       Navy nomination of Rear Adm. John D. Alexander, to be Vice 
     Admiral.
       Navy nomination of Vice Adm. John C. Aquilino, to be Vice 
     Admiral.
       Army nomination of Lt. Gen. Robert P. Ashley, Jr., to be 
     Lieutenant General.
       Army nomination of Brig. Gen. Darrell J. Guthrie, to be 
     Major General.
       Army nomination of Col. Brian E. Miller, to be Brigadier 
     General.

  Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, for the Committee on Armed Services I 
report favorably the following nomination lists which were printed in 
the Record on the dates indicated, and ask unanimous consent, to save 
the expense of reprinting on the Executive Calendar that these 
nominations lie at the Secretary's desk for the information of 
Senators.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.

       Army nomination of Damian R. Tong, to be Major.
       Army nominations beginning with Dennis Arroyo and ending 
     with Brian P. Weber, which nominations were received by the 
     Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on July 27, 
     2017.
       Army nominations beginning with Murray E. Carlock and 
     ending with Carlos V. Silva, which nominations were received 
     by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on 
     July 27, 2017.
       Army nominations beginning with Alon S. Aharon and ending 
     with Edwin A. Wymer, which nominations were received by the 
     Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on July 27, 
     2017.
       Army nominations beginning with Julia R. Plevnia and ending 
     with Hal E. Vineyard, which nominations were received by the 
     Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on July 27, 
     2017.
       Army nominations beginning with Tressa D. Cochran and 
     ending with Karen F. Wiggins, which nominations were received 
     by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on 
     July 27, 2017.
       Army nominations beginning with Loren D. Adams and ending 
     with Philip A. Wentz, which nominations were received by the 
     Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on July 27, 
     2017.
       Army nominations beginning with Joanne E. Arsenault and 
     ending with Felisha L. Rhodes, which nominations were 
     received by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
     Record on July 27, 2017.
       Army nominations beginning with Michael E. Alvis and ending 
     with Jeffrey P. Wood, which nominations were received by the 
     Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on July 27, 
     2017.
       Army nominations beginning with John W. Aldridge and ending 
     with Philip E. Zapanta, which nominations were received by 
     the Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on July 
     27, 2017.
       Army nominations beginning with Scott R. Cheever and ending 
     with Diana E. Zschaschel, which nominations were received by 
     the Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on July 
     27, 2017.
       Army nominations beginning with Edward J. Alexander and 
     ending with Bridget C. Wolfe, which nominations were received 
     by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on 
     July 27, 2017.
       Army nominations beginning with Robin Crear and ending with 
     Neil P. Woods, which nominations were received by the Senate 
     and appeared in the Congressional Record on July 27, 2017.
       Army nominations beginning with Eric W. Bullock and ending 
     with Crystal R. Romay, which nominations were received by the 
     Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on July 27, 
     2017.
       Navy nominations beginning with Betty S. Alexander and 
     ending with James S. Zmijski, which nominations were received 
     by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on 
     July 20, 2017.
       Navy nominations beginning with Dominic J. Antenucci and 
     ending with Matthew J. Wooten, which nominations were 
     received by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
     Record on July 20, 2017.
       Navy nominations beginning with Clemia Anderson and ending 
     with Michael A. Zundel, which nominations were received by 
     the Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on July 
     20, 2017.
       Navy nominations beginning with Eric F. Bauman and ending 
     with Evan R. Whitbeck, which nominations were received by the 
     Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on July 20, 
     2017.
       Navy nominations beginning with Thomas B. Ableman and 
     ending with Bruce A. Yee, which nominations were received by 
     the Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on July 
     20, 2017.
       Navy nominations beginning with Eric W. Hass and ending 
     with Gail M. Mulleavy, which nominations were received by the 
     Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on July 20, 
     2017.
       Navy nominations beginning with Christopher L. Almond and 
     ending with Daniel W. Wall, which nominations were received 
     by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on 
     July 20, 2017.
       Navy nominations beginning with Robert E. Bradshaw and 
     ending with Leroy C. Young, which nominations were received 
     by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on 
     July 20, 2017.
       Navy nominations beginning with Thomas E. Arnold and ending 
     with Michael P. Yunker, which nominations were received by 
     the Senate and appeared in the Congressional Record on July 
     20, 2017.
       Navy nomination of Clair E. Smith, to be Lieutenant 
     Commander.
       Navy nomination of Morgan E. McClellan, to be Lieutenant 
     Commander.
       Navy nominations beginning with Andrew B. Bridgforth and 
     ending with Ronald J. Mitchell, which nominations were 
     received by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
     Record on July 25, 2017.
       By Mr. THUNE for the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
     Transportation.
       *Ajit Varadaraj Pai, of Kansas, to be a Member of the 
     Federal Communications Commission for a term of five years 
     from July 1, 2016.
       *Karen Dunn Kelley, of Pennsylvania, to be Under Secretary 
     of Commerce for Economic Affairs.
       *Elizabeth Erin Walsh, of the District of Columbia, to be 
     Assistant Secretary of Commerce and Director General of the 
     United States and Foreign Commercial Service.
       *Steven Gill Bradbury, of Virginia, to be General Counsel 
     of the Department of Transportation.
       *Jessica Rosenworcel, of Connecticut, to be a Member of the 
     Federal Communications Commission for a term of five years 
     from July 1, 2015.
       *Mark H. Buzby, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the 
     Maritime Administration.
       *Peter B. Davidson, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of 
     the Department of Commerce.
       *Robert L. Sumwalt III, of South Carolina, to be Chairman 
     of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term of two 
     years.
       *Brendan Carr, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Federal 
     Communications Commission for the remainder of the term 
     expiring June 30, 2018.
       *Brendan Carr, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Federal 
     Communications Commission for a term of five years from July 
     1, 2018.
       *Ronald L. Batory, of New Jersey, to be Administrator of 
     the Federal Railroad Administration.
       By Mr. ALEXANDER for the Committee on Health, Education, 
     Labor, and Pensions.
       *James J. Sullivan, Jr., of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of 
     the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission for a 
     term expiring April 27, 2021.
       *Brett Giroir, of Texas, to be Medical Director in the 
     Regular Corps of the Public Health Service, subject to the 
     qualifications therefor as provided by law and regulations, 
     and to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human 
     Services.
       *Heather L. MacDougall, of Florida, to be a Member of the 
     Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission for a term 
     expiring April 27, 2023.
       *Elinore F. McCance-Katz, of Rhode Island, to be Assistant 
     Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use, Department of 
     Health and Human Services.
       *Lance Allen Robertson, of Oklahoma, to be Assistant 
     Secretary for Aging, Department of Health and Human Services.
       *Jerome M. Adams, of Indiana, to be Medical Director in the 
     Regular Corps of the Public Health Service, subject to 
     qualifications therefor as provided by law and regulations, 
     and to be Surgeon General of the Public Health Service for a 
     term of four years.

[[Page S4766]]

       *Robert P. Kadlec, of New York, to be Medical Director in 
     the Regular Corps of the Public Health Service, subject to 
     qualifications therefor as provided by law and regulations, 
     and to be Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response, 
     Department of Health and Human Services.

  *Nomination was reported with recommendation that it be confirmed 
subject to the nominee's commitment to respond to requests to appear 
and testify before any duly constituted committee of the Senate.
  (Nominations without an asterisk were reported with the 
recommendation that they be confirmed.)

                          ____________________



