

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4666-S4667]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS

  The following petition or memorial was laid before the Senate and was 
referred or ordered to lie on the table as indicated:

       POM-78. A joint resolution adopted by the Legislature of 
     the State of Alaska making application to the United States 
     Congress to call a convention of the state to propose a 
     countermand amendment to the United States Constitution as 
     provided under Article V; and urging the legislatures of the 
     other 49 states to make the same application; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.

                     House Joint Resolution No. 14

       Whereas the state's sovereignty has been infringed upon by 
     the federal government, including by the federal government's 
     recent denial of and refusal to work with state officials on 
     the construction of a lifesaving road from King Cove to Cold 
     Bay; and
       Whereas the state's access to a fair permitting process for 
     projects that will develop the state's natural resources and 
     provide revenue streams to the state, including oil 
     exploration in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and large-
     scale mining projects throughout the state, has been 
     continually denied by the United States Environmental 
     Protection Agency and other agencies of the federal 
     government; and
       Whereas the United States Congress has, at times, exceeded 
     its delegated powers, the President of the United States has, 
     at times,

[[Page S4667]]

     exceeded the constitutional authority of the office of the 
     President of the United States and the federal courts have, 
     at times, exceeded their authority by issuing decisions on 
     public policy matters reserved to the states in violation of 
     the principles of federalism and separation of powers, all of 
     which have, adversely affected the state and its people; and
       Whereas under the authority of art. V, Constitution of the 
     United States; the several states should apply to the United 
     States Congress to call a convention of the states to amend 
     the United States Constitution and adopt a countermand 
     amendment to authorize the states, upon a vote of three-
     fifths of the state legislatures, to nullify and repeal a 
     federal statute, executive order, judicial decision, 
     regulatory decision by a federal government agency, or 
     government mandate imposed on the states by law that 
     adversely affects the interests of the states, in order to 
     properly exercise the states' constitutional authority to 
     check federal power, preserve state sovereignty, and protect 
     the rights of the states and the people; and
       Whereas the states have the authority to define and limit 
     the agenda of a convention to a single-issue ``countermand 
     amendment convention'' called for by the states as provided 
     under art. V, Constitution of the United States; and
       Whereas the delegates sent by the states to a countermand 
     amendment convention shall have the limited authority to 
     deliberate on and decide whether the countermand amendment, 
     as preapproved by suite legislatures, should be sent back to 
     the state legislatures for ratification; be it
       Resolved, That, under art. V, Constitution of the United 
     States, the Alaska State Legislature directs the United 
     States Congress to call a single-issue convention of the 
     states, called a ``countermand amendment convention,'' for 
     the sole purpose of deciding whether the proposed countermand 
     amendment should be sent back to the state legislatures for 
     ratification; and be it further
       Resolved, That this application constitutes a continuing 
     application in accordance with art. V. Constitution of the 
     United States, until at least two-thirds of the legislatures 
     of the several states have applied for a similar convention 
     of the states; and be it further
       Resolved, That the Alaska State Legislature urges the 
     legislatures of the other 49 states to apply to the United 
     States Congress to call a single-issue countermand convention 
     of the states under art. V, Constitution of the United 
     States.
       Copies of this resolution shall be sent to the Honorable 
     Barack Obama, President of the United States; the Honorable 
     Joseph R. Biden, Jr., Vice-President of the United States and 
     President of the U.S. Senate; the Honorable John Boehner, 
     Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives; the Honorable 
     Mitch McConnell, Majority Leader of the U.S. Senate; the 
     Honorable Nancy Erickson, Secretary of the U.S. Senate; the 
     Honorable Karen L. Haas, Clerk of the U.S. House of 
     Representatives; the Honorable Lisa Murkowski and the 
     Honorable Dan Sullivan, U.S. Senators, and the Honorable Don 
     Young, U.S. Representative, members of the Alaska delegation 
     in Congress; and the presiding officers of the legislatures 
     of each of the other 49 states.

                          ____________________



