

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 101 (Wednesday, June 14, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 101 (Wednesday, June 14, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3487-S3489]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 65

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 65, a bill to address 
financial conflicts of interest of the President and Vice President.


                                 S. 178

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Ms. Cortez Masto) was added as a cosponsor of S. 178, a bill to 
prevent elder abuse and exploitation and improve the justice system's 
response to victims in elder abuse and exploitation cases.


                                 S. 247

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 247, a bill 
to provide an incentive for businesses to bring jobs back to America.


                                 S. 300

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 300, a bill 
to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to require that return 
information from tax-exempt organizations be made available in a 
searchable format and to provide the disclosure of the identity of 
contributors to certain tax-exempt organizations.


                                 S. 324

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Thune) was added as a cosponsor of S. 324, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to improve the provision of adult day 
health care services for veterans.


                                 S. 383

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 383, a bill 
to coordinate the provision of energy retrofitting assistance to 
schools.


                                 S. 431

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 431, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to expand the use of telehealth for 
individuals with stroke.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr.

[[Page S3488]]

Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 445, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure more timely access to home 
health services for Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. Reed) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage 
of certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of durable 
medical equipment.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Mr. Johnson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 540, a bill to limit the 
authority of States to tax certain income of employees for employment 
duties performed in other States.


                                 S. 548

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Isakson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 548, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform the low-income housing credit, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 591

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the names of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) and the Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 591, a bill to expand eligibility for the 
program of comprehensive assistance for family caregivers of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, to expand benefits available to 
participants under such program, to enhance special compensation for 
members of the uniformed services who require assistance in everyday 
life, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 721

  At the request of Mr. Udall, the name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. 
Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 721, a bill to require the 
disclosure of certain visitor access records.


                                 S. 722

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the names of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
Lee) and the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Tillis) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 722, a bill to impose sanctions with respect to Iran 
in relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, support for acts of 
international terrorism, and violations of human rights, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 772

  At the request of Mr. McCain, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 772, a bill to amend the 
PROTECT Act to make Indian tribes eligible for AMBER Alert grants.


                                 S. 828

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 828, a bill to amend the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Act to require the appropriate Federal 
banking agencies to treat certain municipal obligations as level 2B 
liquid assets, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 921

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 921, a bill 
to require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration 
of the 100 year anniversary of the 1st Infantry Division.


                                 S. 987

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Mr. Schatz) was added as a cosponsor of S. 987, a bill to transition 
away from fossil fuel sources of energy to 100 percent clean and 
renewable energy by 2050, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 989

  At the request of Mr. Blunt, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 989, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to provide for the participation of pediatric 
subspecialists in the National Health Service Corps program, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 999

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 999, a bill to amend the 
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to permanently prohibit the conduct 
of offshore drilling on the outer Continental Shelf in the Mid-
Atlantic, South Atlantic, North Atlantic, and Straits of Florida 
planning areas.


                                S. 1002

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the names of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Daines) and the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Perdue) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1002, a bill to enhance the ability of community 
financial institutions to foster economic growth and serve their 
communities, boost small businesses, increase individual savings, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1014

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1014, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to make grants to eligible organizations 
to provide service dogs to veterans with severe post-traumatic stress 
disorder, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1024

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Thune) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1024, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to reform the rights and processes 
relating to appeals of decisions regarding claims for benefits under 
the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1091

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) and the Senator from Florida (Mr. Nelson) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1091, a bill to establish a Federal Task 
Force to Support Grandparents Raising Grandchildren.


                                S. 1146

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the names of the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) and the Senator from Maine (Mr. King) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1146, a bill to enhance the ability of the 
Office of the National Ombudsman to assist small businesses in meeting 
regulatory requirements and develop outreach initiatives to promote 
awareness of the services the Office of the National Ombudsman 
provides, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1155

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. Duckworth) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1155, a bill to amend 
title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 in order to increase the 
amount of financial support available for working students.


                                S. 1172

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1172, a bill 
to impose sanctions with respect to foreign persons responsible for 
gross violations of internationally recognized human rights against 
lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) individuals, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1188

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1188, a bill to 
amend title XXIX of the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize the 
program under such title relating to lifespan respite care.


                                S. 1285

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. Wyden) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1285, a bill to allow the 
Confederated Tribes of Coos, Lower Umpqua, and Siuslaw Indians, the 
Confederated Tribes of the Grand Ronde Community of Oregon, the 
Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians of Oregon, the Confederated 
Tribes of Warm Springs, and the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of 
Indians to lease or transfer certain lands.


                                S. 1296

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the name of the Senator from 
Missouri (Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1296, a bill to 
amend the Uniform Code of Military Justice to prohibit the wrongful 
broadcast or distribution of intimate visual images.


                                S. 1341

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1341, a bill to amend 
the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to prohibit employment of children 
in tobacco-related agriculture by deeming such employment as oppressive 
child labor.

[[Page S3489]]

  



                              S. RES. 185

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 185, a 
resolution recognizing and expressing support for the goals and ideals 
of National Water Safety Month.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 230

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of amendment No. 230 intended to be 
proposed to S. 722, a bill to impose sanctions with respect to Iran in 
relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, support for acts of 
international terrorism, and violations of human rights, and for other 
purposes.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 232

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the names of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez), the Senator from Georgia (Mr. Perdue), the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren), the Senator from Florida (Mr. Rubio), the 
Senator from South Carolina (Mr. Scott), the Senator from North Dakota 
(Ms. Heitkamp), the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. Reed) and the 
Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) were added as cosponsors of 
amendment No. 232 proposed to S. 722, a bill to impose sanctions with 
respect to Iran in relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, 
support for acts of international terrorism, and violations of human 
rights, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



