

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5768-H5769]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1045
              RECOGNIZING FULBRIGHT SCHOLARSHIP RECIPIENTS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, for more than 70 years, the Fulbright 
program, established by Congress, has forged connections between 
Americans and emerging leaders around the world. The Fulbright program 
has provided more than 370,000 participants, chosen for their academic 
merit and leadership potential, with the opportunity to exchange ideas 
and contribute to finding solutions to shared international concerns.
  Each year the Fulbright program grants students with the opportunity 
to study, research, or teach English abroad in an effort to 
internationalize communities and campuses around the world.
  I rise today to recognize the prestigious accomplishment of students 
from my district who received Fulbright scholarships for the 2016-2017 
grant year.
  Our proud congratulations to:
  Kimberly Algeo of Newtown, a scholar in anthropology from Rider 
University, for her work in Japan;
  Elizabeth Beavers of Yardley, a student from the University of 
Maryland, College Park, on an English teaching assistantship in South 
Korea;
  Hunter Gabbard of Doylestown, a student in physics from the 
University of Mississippi, for his work in Germany;
  Michael Galperin of Warminster, a student from Lafayette College, on 
an English teaching assistantship in South Korea;
  William Lescas of Churchville, a student in political science from 
the University of Delaware, for his work in Denmark;
  Ivan Simpson-Kent of Levittown, a student in biology from the 
University of Scranton, for his work in Germany;
  And Dr. Paul Swann of Doylestown, a scholar in communications from 
Temple University, for his work in South Korea.
  On behalf of the Eighth Congressional District of Pennsylvania, to 
all

[[Page H5769]]

of our scholars, we congratulate them for their prestigious 
accomplishment. And just to let all of you know, you continue to make 
all of us proud.


             Empowering Women and Ending Domestic Violence

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the mothers, 
daughters, and wives of my district. I stand here in solemn support for 
women not only in our community, but across our Nation and throughout 
the world who experience domestic violence each day.
  This unacceptable treatment cannot go unnoticed. We must continue to 
push for better opportunities for those abused in our community.
  By providing these women with more options, they can begin to find 
safety, support, and empowerment for a better way of life. Whether this 
be supporting a child or finding a better job and employment, it is 
important that their voices be heard.
  I am proud to work with community-based organizations committed to 
empowering women and ending domestic violence for all. I commend A 
Woman's Place in Doylestown, Pennsylvania, for their steadfast 
commitment to a society where all individuals are safe and can 
flourish.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank the leadership staff at A Woman's Place, Mae 
O'Brien, Lauren Bucksner, Danielle Ferri, and Heather Giampapa, as well 
as other staff and volunteers committed to promoting peace, quality, 
and respect in our districts and beyond.


                   Perkasie Park's 135th Anniversary

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Perkasie Park 
on its 135th anniversary and celebrate its new status as a National 
Historic District.
  Founded in 1882, Perkasie Park is one of just a handful of intact 
camp meeting facilities that continue to operate in Pennsylvania. Home 
to dozens of Victorian-era cottages and buildings, at its height, 
Perkasie Park was Bucks County's biggest attraction, drawing 
worshippers and vacationers from Philadelphia and the surrounding 
region to the quaint, quiet countryside of the Borough of Perkasie.
  Last year, thanks to the tireless efforts of volunteers, residents, 
and community leaders, Perkasie Park was named to the National Register 
of Historic Places for its role in the American camp meeting movement 
of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Through their dedication, 
the park joined over 150 Bucks County properties on the National 
Register, including the 1832 South Perkasie Covered Bridge on the other 
side of town.
  I am proud to represent a district that understands and honors its 
deep-rooted history, and I join with the people in Perkasie in 
celebrating this momentous anniversary and accomplishment.

                          ____________________



