

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 125 (Tuesday, July 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 125 (Tuesday, July 25, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6297-H6298]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. FARENTHOLD:
       H.R. 3377. A bill to prohibit importation of seafood 
     products of countries that do not prohibit the practice of 
     shark finning, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. WALORSKI (for herself, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Johnson 
             of Ohio, Mr. Ruiz, and Mr. Sessions):
       H.R. 3378. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to require reporting of certain data by 
     providers and suppliers of air ambulance services for 
     purposes of reforming reimbursements for such services under 
     the Medicare program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. COFFMAN (for himself, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Faso, 
             and Mr. Takano):
       H.R. 3379. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for an increase in the earned income tax 
     credit for individuals with no qualifying children, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ (for herself, Mr. Ellison, Ms. 
             Jayapal, Mr. DeFazio, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mrs. Carolyn 
             B. Maloney of New York, and Mrs. Watson Coleman):
       H.R. 3380. A bill to cancel the registration of all uses of 
     the pesticide chlorpyrifos, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois (for himself, Ms. 
             Lee, Ms. Roybal-Allard, and Mr. Connolly):
       H.R. 3381. A bill to establish in the Administration for 
     Children and Families of the Department of Health and Human 
     Services the Federal Interagency Working Group on Reducing 
     Child Poverty to develop a national strategy to eliminate 
     child poverty in the United States, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts (for herself and Mr. 
             Bucshon):
       H.R. 3382. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     better address substance use and substance use disorders 
     among young people; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. ESTES of Kansas:
       H.R. 3383. A bill to designate the flood control project in 
     Sedgwick County, Kansas, commonly known as the Wichita-Valley 
     Center Flood Control Project, as the ``M.S. `Mitch' Mitchell 
     Floodway''; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mrs. HARTZLER:
       H.R. 3384. A bill to amend the Richard B. Russell National 
     School Lunch Act by repealing the paid lunch equity 
     requirements; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas (for himself, Mr. 
             Schweikert, and Mr. Curbelo of Florida):
       H.R. 3385. A bill to require the Commissioner of Social 
     Security to update the medical-vocational guidelines used in 
     disability determinations; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas (for himself and Mr. Kelly 
             of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 3386. A bill to amend titles II and XVI of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for quality reviews of benefit 
     decisions, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. HARPER:
       H.R. 3387. A bill to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to 
     improve public water systems and enhance compliance with such 
     Act, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. LATTA (for himself and Ms. Schakowsky):
       H.R. 3388. A bill to provide for information on highly 
     automated driving systems to be made available to prospective 
     buyers; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. BARRAGAN:
       H.R. 3389. A bill to give priority in allocation of rental 
     assistance vouchers under the Veterans Affairs Supported 
     Housing program of the Department of Housing and Urban 
     Development to areas having the largest populations of 
     homeless veterans, and for other

[[Page H6298]]

     purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Ms. CASTOR of Florida (for herself and Mr. Soto):
       H.R. 3390. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to reduce the interest rate caps for Federal Direct student 
     loans, to eliminate loan origination fees on all Federal 
     Direct student loans, and to provide for refinancing of 
     Federal Direct student loans and Federal family education 
     loans; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. HARRIS (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
             Griffith, and Ms. Lofgren):
       H.R. 3391. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     make marijuana accessible for use by qualified marijuana 
     researchers for medical purposes, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana:
       H.R. 3392. A bill to provide for stability of title to 
     certain land in the State of Louisiana, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for himself, Mr. 
             Cartwright, and Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire):
       H.R. 3393. A bill to increase cybersecurity education and 
     job growth, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Science, Space, and Technology, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Ways and Means, Education and the Workforce, 
     and Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. McMORRIS RODGERS (for herself, Mr. Carter of 
             Georgia, Mr. Heck, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Khanna, Mr. 
             LaMalfa, Mr. McGovern, Mr. O'Halleran, Mr. Raskin, 
             Mr. Vela, Mr. Young of Iowa, Mr. Capuano, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Denham, Mr. Espaillat, 
             Mr. Faso, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. 
             Moulton, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. Takano, Mr. Valadao, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Courtney, Mr. Danny K. Davis 
             of Illinois, Mr. DeFazio, Ms. DeLauro, Ms. DelBene, 
             Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Mr. Long, 
             Mr. Lucas, Mr. Marino, Mr. Murphy of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Nolan, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Rush, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Tsongas, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. 
             Ruiz, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Cole, Mr. 
             Rogers of Kentucky, and Mr. Larson of Connecticut):
       H.R. 3394. A bill to reauthorize section 340H of the Public 
     Health Service Act to continue to encourage the expansion, 
     maintenance, and establishment of approved graduate medical 
     residency programs at qualified teaching health centers, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. MEEHAN (for himself and Mr. Norcross):
       H.R. 3395. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow tax free distributions from section 529 college 
     savings plans for certain expenses associated with registered 
     apprenticeship programs; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. PAULSEN:
       H.R. 3396. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to change the classification of employers and employees 
     for services providers; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. ROSEN (for herself, Mr. Knight, Mr. Evans, Mr. 
             Meeks, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Beyer, Ms. Esty 
             of Connecticut, Mr. Crist, Ms. Slaughter, and Mr. 
             Soto):
       H.R. 3397. A bill to direct the National Science Foundation 
     to support STEM education research focused on early 
     childhood; to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
     Technology.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska (for himself and Ms. Gabbard):
       H.R. 3398. A bill to amend the Real ID Act of 2005 to 
     permit Freely Associated States to meet identification 
     requirements under such Act, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE (for herself, Mr. Cohen, Ms. 
             Hanabusa, Mr. Gutierrez, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of 
             New York, Mr. Castro of Texas, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Lewis 
             of Georgia, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Raskin, Mrs. 
             Lawrence, Ms. Bass, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, Mr. Kildee, 
             and Mr. Beyer):
       H. Res. 474. A resolution expressing disapproval of any 
     action by the President to remove the Special Counsel 
     investigating Russian interference in the 2016 presidential 
     election and opposition to the granting of pardons to any 
     person for offenses against the United States arising out of 
     Russia's activities to bring about the election Donald J. 
     Trump as President of the United States; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. POLIQUIN (for himself and Mr. Heck):
       H. Res. 475. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of the month of September 2017 as ``National 
     Month for Renters''; to the Committee on Financial Services.

                          ____________________



