

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 109 (Monday, June 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 109 (Monday, June 26, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3761-S3764]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION

  Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control 
Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain 
proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification, 
the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be 
reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the 
notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
  In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant 
information is available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous consent to 
have printed in the Record the notifications which have been received. 
If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such annex is 
available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign Relations 
Committee, room SD-423.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 17-12, 
     concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and 
     Acceptance to the Government of Australia for defense 
     articles and services estimated to cost $1.3 billion. After 
     this letter is delivered to your office, we plan

[[Page S3762]]

     to issue a news release to notify the public of this proposed 
     sale.
           Sincerely,
                                                       J.W. Rixey,
                                      Vice Admiral, USN, Director.


                         Transmittal No. 17-12

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Australia.
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment* $0.04 billion.
       Other $1.26 billion.
       Total $1.30 billion.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase:
       The Government of Australia requested the sale of up to 
     five (5) Gulfstream G-550 aircraft modified to integrate 
     Airborne Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance, and 
     Electronic Warfare (AISREW) mission systems, Global 
     Positioning System (GPS) capability, secure communications, 
     aircraft defensive systems, and whole life costs of airborne 
     and ground segments.
       This proposed sale includes up to five (5) AN/AAQ-24 (V)N 
     Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM) systems, and 
     additional sub-component spares. Each prime LAIRCM system 
     will consist of: one (1) Guardian Laser Terminal Assemblies 
     (GLTA), five (5) Infrared Missile Warning Sensors, (IRMWS), 
     one (1) LAIRCM System Processor Replacements (LSPR) MDE 
     items, one (1) LAIRCM System Processor Replacements (LSPR), 
     one (1) Control Indicator Unit Replacement (CIUR), one (1) 
     Smart Card Assembly (SCA), one (1) High Capacity Card (HCC), 
     and one (1) User Data Memory (UDM) card. Also included are: 
     MX-20 HD Electro-Optical and Infrared systems, Osprey 50 AESA 
     Radars, AISREW equipment, secure communications equipment, 
     and Identification Friend or Foe (IFF) Systems. These systems 
     will be installed on up to five (5) G-550 aircraft.
       Major Defense Equipment (MDR):
       Eight (8) GLTA AN/AAQ-24 (V)N (5 installed and 3 spares).
       Twenty-nine (29) IRMWS (25 installed and 4 spares).
       Six (6) LSPR AN/AAQ-24 (V)N (5 installed and 1 spare).
       Six (6) Embedded/GPS/INS (EGI) with GPS Security Devices, 
     Airborne (5 installed and1 spare).
       Seven (7) Multifunctional Information Distribution 
     Systems--Joint Tactical Radio System (MIDS JTRS) (5 installed 
     and 2 spares).
       Non-MDE includes: Also included in this sale are up to five 
     (5) G-550 Aircraft, CIURs, SCAs, HCCs and UDM cards, AN/ALE-
     47 Countermeasure Dispenser Sets (CMDS), MX-20HD Electro-
     Optical and Infra-Red systems, Osprey 50 AESA Radars, AISREW 
     ISR equipment, Secure Communications equipment, 
     Identification Friend or Foe Systems, aircraft modification 
     and integration, ground systems for data processing and crew 
     training, ground support equipment, publications and 
     technical data, U.S. Government and contractor engineering, 
     technical and logistics support services, flight test and 
     certification, and other related elements of logistical and 
     program support.
       (iv) Military Department: Air Force (QCS).
       (v) Prior Related Cases if any: AT-D-SAA & AT-D-GCA.
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc. Paid, Offered, or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Annex 
     Attached.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: June 23, 2017.
       *As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          POLICY JUSTIFICATION

    Australia-Gulfstream-G550 Aircraft with Airborne Intelligence, 
 Surveillance. Reconnaissance, and Electronic Warfare (AISREW) Mission 
                                Systems

       The Government of Australia requested the possible sale of 
     up to five (5) Gulfstream G-550 aircraft modified to 
     integrate Airborne Intelligence, Surveillance, 
     Reconnaissance, and Electronic Warfare (AISREW) mission 
     systems, Global Positioning System (GPS) capability, secure 
     communications, aircraft defensive systems; spares, including 
     whole life costs of airborne and ground segments; aircraft 
     modification and integration; ground systems for data 
     processing and crew training; ground support equipment; 
     publications and technical data; U.S. Government and 
     contractor engineering, technical and logistics support 
     services; flight test and certification; and other related 
     elements of logistical and program support. The total 
     estimated program cost is $1.3 billion.
       This sale will contribute to the foreign policy and 
     national security of the United States by helping to improve 
     the security of a major contributor to political stability, 
     security, and economic development in the Western Pacific. 
     Australia is an important Major non-NATO Ally and partner 
     that contributes significantly to peacekeeping and 
     humanitarian operations around the world. It is vital to the 
     U.S. national interest to assist our ally in developing and 
     maintaining a strong and ready self-defense capability.
       The proposed sale supports and complements the ongoing 
     efforts of Australia to modernize its Electronic Warfare 
     capability and increases interoperability between the U.S. 
     Air Force and the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). 
     Australia will have no difficulty absorbing this equipment 
     into its armed forces.
       The proposed sale of this equipment does not alter the 
     basic military balance in the region.
       The prime contractors will be L3 of Greenville, TX. There 
     are no known offset agreements proposed in connection with 
     this potential sale.
       Implementation of this proposed sale may require the 
     assignment of up to six (6) U.S. contractor representatives 
     to Australia.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale.


                         Transmittal No, 17-12

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act

                           Annex Item No. vii

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
       1. This sale will involve the release of sensitive 
     technology to Australia. Sensitive and/or classified (up to 
     SECRET) elements of the proposed sale include the AN/AAQ-24 
     (V)N Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM) 
     systems, Embedded/GPS/INS (EGI) with security devices, 
     Airborne, Multifunctional Information Distribution Systems--
     Joint Tactical Radio System (MIDS JTRS), AN/ALE-47 
     Countermeasure Dispenser Set (CMDS), MX-20HD Electro-Optical 
     and Infra-Red systems, Osprey 50 AESA Radars, and Airborne 
     Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance and Electronic 
     (AISREW) mission system.
       2. The AN/AAQ-24 (V)N LAIRCM is a self-contained, directed 
     energy countermeasures system designed to protect aircraft 
     from infrared (IR)-guided surface-to-air missiles. The system 
     features digital technology and micro-miniature solid state 
     electronics. The system operates in all conditions, detecting 
     incoming missiles and jamming infrared-seeker equipped 
     missiles with aimed bursts of laser energy. The LAIRCM system 
     consists of multiple Infrared Missile Warning System (IRMWS) 
     Sensors, Guardian Laser Turret Assembly (GLTA), LAIRCM System 
     Processor Replacement (LSPR), Control Indicator Unit 
     Replacement (CIUR), and a classified High Capacity Card 
     (HCC), and User Data Memory (UDM) card. The HCC is loaded 
     into the CIUR prior to flight. When the classified HCC is not 
     in use, it is removed from the CIUR and placed in onboard 
     secure storage. LAIRCM Line Replaceable Unit (LRU) hardware 
     is classified SECRET when the HCC is inserted into the CIUR. 
     LAIRCM system software, including Operational Flight Program 
     is classified SECRET. Technical data and documentation to be 
     provided are UNCLASSIFIED.
       The set of IRMWS Sensor units are mounted on the aircraft 
     exterior to provide omnidirectional protection. The IRMWS 
     Sensor warns of threat missile approach by detecting 
     radiation associated with the rocket motor. The IRMWS is a 
     small, lightweight, passive, electro-optic, threat warning 
     device used to detect surface-to-air missiles fired at 
     helicopters and low-flying fixed-wing aircraft and 
     automatically provides countermeasures, as well as audio and 
     visual warning messages to the aircrew. The basic system 
     consists of multiple IRMWS Sensor units, one (1) GLTA, LSPR 
     and CIUR. The set of IRMWS units (each A-330 MRTT has five 
     (5)) mounted on the aircraft exterior to provide omni-
     directional protection. Hardware is UNCLASSIFIED. Software is 
     SECRET. Technical data and documentation to be provided are 
     UNCLASSIFIED.
       3. Multifunctional Information Distribution System-Joint 
     Tactical Radio System (MIDS JTRS) is an advanced Link-16 
     command, control, communications, and intelligence (C3I) 
     system incorporating high-capacity, jam-resistant, digital 
     communication links for exchange of near real-time tactical 
     information, including both data and voice, among air, 
     ground, and sea elements. The MIDS JTRS terminal hardware, 
     publications, performance specifications, operational 
     capability, parameters, vulnerabilities to countermeasures, 
     and software documentation are classified CONFIDENTIAL. The 
     classified information to be provided consists of that which 
     is necessary for the operation, maintenance, and repair 
     (through intermediate level) of the data link terminal, 
     installed systems, and related software.
       4. The AN/ALE-47 Countermeasure Dispenser Set (CMDS) 
     provides an integrated threat-adaptive, computer controlled 
     capability for dispensing chaff, flares, and active radio 
     frequency expendables. The AN/ALE-47 system enhances aircraft 
     survivability in sophisticated threat environments.
       The threats countered by the CMDS include radar-directed 
     anti-aircraft artillery (AAA), radar command-guided missiles, 
     radar homing guided missiles, and infrared (IR) guided 
     missiles. The system is internally mounted and may be 
     operated as a stand-alone system or may be integrated with 
     other on-board Electronic Warfare (EW) and avionics systems. 
     The AN/ALE-47 uses threat data received over the aircraft 
     interfaces to assess the threat situation and determine a 
     response. Expendable routines tailored to the immediate 
     aircraft and threat environment may be dispensed using one of 
     four operational modes. Hardware is UNCLASSIFIED. Software is 
     SECRET. Technical data and documentation to be provided is 
     UNCLASSIFIED.
       5. The Embedded GPS-INS (EGI) LN-200 is a sensor that 
     combines GPS and inertial sensor inputs to provide accurate 
     location information for navigation and targeting. The

[[Page S3763]]

     EGI LN-200 is UNCLASSIFIED. The GPS crypto-variable keys 
     needed for the highest GPS accuracy are classified up to 
     SECRET.
       6. Wescam MX-20HD is a gyro-stabilized, multi-spectral, 
     multi-field of view Electro-Optical/Infrared (EO/IR) system. 
     The systems provide surveillance laser illumination and laser 
     designation through use of an externally mounted turret 
     sensor unit and internally mounted master control. Sensor 
     video imagery is displayed in the aircraft real time and may 
     be recorded for subsequent ground analysis. Hardware is 
     UNCLASSIFIED. Technical data and documentation to be provided 
     is UNCLASSIFIED.
       7. The Osprey family of surveillance radars provides second 
     generation Active Electronically Scanned Array (AFSA) 
     surveillance capability as the primary sensor on airborne 
     assets. The Osprey radars are at a high technology readiness 
     level and are in production for fixed and rotary wing 
     applications. This Osprey configuration employs a side-
     looking radar. Osprey radars provide a genuine multi-domain 
     capability, with high performance sea surveillance, notably 
     against ``difficult targets, land surveillance with wide 
     swath, very high resolution ground mapping small and low 
     speed ground target indication, high performance air to air 
     surveillance, tracking and intercept.
       8. The AISREW mission system provides near-real-time 
     information to tactical forces, combatant commanders and 
     national-level authorities across the spectrum of conflict. 
     The mission system can forward gathered information in a 
     variety of formats via secured communications systems. Most 
     hardware used in this AISREW system is generic and 
     commercially available. However, if any of the specialized 
     hardware or publications are lost, the information could 
     provide insight into many critical U.S. capabilities. 
     Information gained could be used to develop countermeasures 
     as well as offensive and defensive counter-tactics.
       9. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain 
     knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the 
     information could be used to develop countermeasures or 
     equivalent system which might reduce system effectiveness or 
     be used in the development of a system with similar or 
     advanced capabilities.
       10. A determination has been made that Australia can 
     provide substantially the same degree of protection for the 
     sensitive technology being released as the U.S. Government. 
     This sale is necessary in furtherance of the U.S. foreign 
     policy and national security objectives outlined in the 
     Policy Justification.
       11. All defense articles and services listed in this 
     transmittal have been authorized for release and export to 
     Australia,
                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker,
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 17-33, 
     concerning the Air Force's proposed Letter(s) of Offer and 
     Acceptance to the Government of India for defense articles 
     and services estimated to cost $366.2 million. After this 
     letter is delivered to your office, we plan to issue a news 
     release to notify the public of this proposed sale.
           Sincerely,
                                                      J. W. Rixey,
                                      Vice Admiral, USN, Director.


                         Transmittal No. 17-33

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: The Government of India.
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment* $285.0 million.
       Other $ 81.2 million.
       Total $366.2 million.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Quantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase:
       Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
       One (1) C-17 Transport Aircraft.
       Four (4) Engines, Turbofan F-117-PW-100.
       Non-MDE includes: Also included in the proposed sale are 
     one (1) AN/AAR-47 Missile Warning System, one (1) AN/ALE-47 
     Countermeasures Dispensing System (CMDS), one (1) AN/APX-119 
     Identification Friend or Foe (Lit) Transponder, precision 
     navigation equipment, spare and repair parts, maintenance, 
     support and test equipment, publications and technical 
     documentation, warranty, quality assurance, ferry support, 
     U.S. Government and contractor engineering, logistics and 
     technical support services, and other related elements of 
     logistics and program support.
       (iv) Military Department: Air Force (X7-D-SAE).
       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: IN-D-SAC--$4.12B, 29 Jun 
     2011.
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee. etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See Attached 
     Annex.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: June 26, 2017.
       *As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          POLICY JUSTIFICATION

       Government of India--C-17 Transport Aircraft
       The Government of India has requested the possible sale of 
     one (1) C-17 transport aircraft with four (4) Turbofan F-117-
     PW-100 engines. The sale would also include one (1) AN/AAR-47 
     Missile Warning System, one (1) AN/ALE-47 Countermeasures 
     Dispensing System (CMDS), one (1) AN/APX-119 Identification 
     Friend or Foe (IFF) Transponder, precision navigation 
     equipment, spare and repair parts, maintenance, support and 
     test equipment, publications and technical documentation, 
     warranty, Quality Assurance, ferry support, U.S. Government 
     and contractor engineering, logistics and technical support 
     services, and other related elements of logistics and program 
     support. The estimated cost is $366.2 million.
       This proposed sale will contribute to the foreign policy 
     and national security of the United States by helping to 
     strengthen the U.S.-India relationship and to improve the 
     security of an important partner which has been, and 
     continues to be, an important force for economic progress and 
     stability in South Asia.
       The proposed sale will improve India's capability to meet 
     current and future strategic airlift requirements. India lies 
     in a region prone to natural disasters and will use the 
     additional capability for Humanitarian Assistance and 
     Disaster Relief (HA/DR). In addition, through this purchase 
     India will be able to provide more rapid strategic combat 
     airlift capabilities for its armed forces. India currently 
     operates C-17 aircraft and will have no difficulty absorbing 
     this aircraft into its armed forces.
       The proposed sale will not alter the basic military balance 
     in the region.
       The principal contractor will be the Boeing Company, 
     Chicago, IL. The purchaser typically requests offsets. Any 
     offset agreement will be defined in negotiations between the 
     purchaser and the contractor.
       Implementation of this proposed sale will not require the 
     assignment of any additional U.S. Government personnel or 
     contractor representatives to India.
       There will be no adverse impact on S. defense readiness as 
     a result of this proposed sale.


                         Transmittal No. 17-33

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act

                           Annex Item No. vii

       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology
       1. The Boeing C-17A Globemaster III military airlift 
     aircraft is the most flexible cargo aircraft to enter the 
     U.S. Air Force fleet. The C-17 is capable of strategic 
     delivery of up to 170,900 pounds of personnel and/or 
     equipment to main operating bases or forward operating 
     locations. The aircraft is also capable short field landings 
     with a full cargo load. The aircraft can perform tactical 
     airlift and airdrop missions as well as transport litters and 
     ambulatory patients during aeromedical evacuation when 
     required. A fully integrated electronic cockpit and advanced 
     cargo delivery system allow a crew of three: pilot, co-pilot, 
     and loadmaster, to operate the aircraft on any type of 
     mission.
       2. The AN/AAR-47 is a small, lightweight, passive, electro-
     optic, threat warning device used to detect surface-to-air 
     missiles fired at helicopters and low-flying fixed-wing 
     aircraft and automatically provide countermeasures, as well 
     as audio and visual-sector warning messages to the aircrew. 
     The basic system consists of multiple Optical Sensor 
     Converter (OSC) units, a Computer Processor (CP) and a 
     Control Indicator (CI). The set of OSC units, which normally 
     consists of four, is mounted on the aircraft exterior to 
     provide omni-directional protection. The OSC detects the 
     rocket plume of missiles and sends appropriate signals to the 
     CP for processing. The CP analyzes the data from each OSC and 
     automatically deploys the appropriate countermeasures, The CP 
     also contains comprehensive Built-in-Test (BIT) circuitry. 
     The CI displays the incoming direction of the threat, so that 
     the pilot can take appropriate action. Hardware is 
     UNCLASSIFIED. Software is SECRET. Technical data and 
     documentation to be provided are UNCLASSIFIED.
       3. The AN/ALE-47 Countermeasures Dispensing System (CMDS) 
     is an integrated, threat-adaptive, software-programmable 
     dispensing system capable of dispensing chaff, flares, and 
     active radio frequency expendables. The threats countered by 
     the CMDS include radar-directed antiaircraft artillery (AAA), 
     radar command-guided missiles, radar homing guided missiles, 
     and infrared (IR) guided missiles. The system is internally 
     mounted and may be operated as a standalone system or may be 
     integrated with other on-board electronic warfare and 
     avionics systems. The AN/ALE-47 uses threat data received 
     over the aircraft interfaces to assess the threat situation 
     and to determine a response. Expendable decoys tailored to 
     the immediate aircraft and threat environment may be 
     dispensed using one of four operational modes. The hardware, 
     technical data, and documentation to be provide are 
     UNCLASSIFIED.
       4. The AN/APX-119 Identification Friend or Foe (IFF) 
     Digital Transponder is an identification system designed for 
     command and control. It enables military and civilian air 
     traffic control interrogation systems to identify aircraft. 
     The hardware, technical data, and documentation to be 
     provided are UNCLASSIFIED.

[[Page S3764]]

  

       5. If a technologically advanced adversary were to obtain 
     knowledge of the specific hardware and software elements, the 
     information could be used to develop countermeasures or 
     equivalent systems which might reduce weapon system 
     effectiveness or be used in the development of a system with 
     similar or advanced capabilities.
       6. A determination has been made that the Government of 
     India can provide substantially the same degree of protection 
     for the sensitive technology being released as the U.S. 
     Government. This proposed sale is necessary to the 
     furtherance of the U.S, foreign policy and national security 
     objectives outlined in the Policy Justification.
       7. All defense articles and services listed in this 
     transmittal are authorized for release and export to the 
     Government of India.

                          ____________________



