

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5299-H5300]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   JULY AS PARKS AND RECREATION MONTH

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, yesterday I introduced a 
resolution with Congresswoman Niki Tsongas to designate July as Parks 
and Recreation Month. It is a fitting time to celebrate our Federal, 
State, and local parks and recreation systems as so many start this 
summer season by visiting these facilities that are available within 
our communities or even a short commute.
  Mr. Speaker, H. Res. 406 recognizes the important role that public 
parks, recreation facilities, and activities plays in the lives of 
Americans and the

[[Page H5300]]

contributions of employees and volunteers who work daily to maintain 
public parks across the Nation.
  As a lifelong resident of rural Pennsylvania and an avid outdoorsman, 
I strongly support our Nation's parks and recreation facilities. Our 
parks provide countless recreational and educational opportunities for 
individuals and families to engage in the outdoors.
  This resolution simply recognizes and supports Parks and Recreation 
Month and the many benefits, including health benefits, that a healthy 
active lifestyle contributes in our park settings that is provided to 
all Americans.

  Our parks generate opportunities for people to come together and 
experience a sense of community. They pay dividends to communities by 
attracting businesses and jobs and increasing housing values.
  In the United States, public park operations and capital spending 
generates nearly $140 million in economic activity annually.
  Ninety percent of people in the United States agree that public park 
recreation activities and facilities are important government services, 
a figure that displays a base of support that spans across all people 
in the country regardless of race, income, gender, or political party 
affiliation.
  Nearly 75 percent of Americans agree that it is important to ensure 
all members of their community have equitable access to public parks 
and recreation facilities. The most economically sound communities are 
those with ample and healthy public parks and recreation facilities and 
activities. In fact, a key factor in business expansion and location 
decisions is the quality of life for employees, with a premium placed 
on adequate and accessible public parks and open space.
  Mr. Speaker, public parks and recreation facilities foster a variety 
of activity that also contribute to a healthier society. People who use 
public parks and open spaces are three times more likely to achieve 
recommended levels of physical activity than nonusers.
  Americans living within a 10-minute walk of a park have a higher 
level of physical activity and lower rates of obesity.
  Recreation programs at public parks provide children with a safe 
place to play, access to healthy foods, opportunities to be physically 
active, and enrichment facilities that help prevent at-risk behavior 
such as drug abuse and gang involvement.
  Mr. Speaker, as our Nation celebrates Independence Day next week, 
scores of Americans will visit public parks and recreation facilities 
to spend time outdoors with family, friends, and neighbors. We are 
blessed with beautiful outdoor facilities. I wish everyone a safe and 
happy Fourth of July. Get out and enjoy the parks in your area.

                          ____________________



