

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 130 (Tuesday, August 1, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S4665]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




             100TH ANNIVERSARY OF HALEY'S METAL SHOP, INC.

  Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I wish to commemorate the 100th 
anniversary of Haley's Metal Shop, Inc., in Biddeford, ME. Spanning 
five generations, Haley's Metal Shop has successfully persisted through 
challenging economic swings and rapid technological advancements. In 
their 100 years of operation, Haley's Metal Shop has been an exemplary 
family-run small business. As such, I am proud to celebrate their 100 
years of service in the Biddeford community and the State of Maine.
  Haley's Metal Shop began in 1917 when Robert Jordan founded his 
tinsmith business in Biddeford. Jordan trained his son-in-law, Joe 
Haley, in the trade, and together, they formed Jordan and Haley. When 
Jordan retired in the 1950s, Joe Haley took on his son, Tom. Joe and 
Tom expanded the business's scope to incorporate new innovations, like 
air conditioning, and changed the company name to Haley's Metal Work, 
Inc. When Joe's children, Joyce and Brian, came of age, they elected to 
join the family business too. The brother and sister made advancements 
in both the technical and administrative branches of their business. 
Today Brian, and son Matthew continue the five-generation family 
tradition of running the business together.
  Over the past 100 years, Haley's Metal Shop has grown and modernized 
to specialize in customized temperature regulation systems, including 
HVAC, central air, and geothermal heat and cooling, in addition to 
metal fabrication and sheet metal installations. In the State of Maine, 
where winter temperatures make home heating especially critical, 
Haley's Metal Shop's 24-hour emergency service helps keep the heat on 
in Maine homes.
  I applaud Haley's Metal Shop for its emphasis on employee development 
and supporting local communities. Haley's Metal Shop employs over 40 
people, including four father-son pairs. They support their staff by 
providing on-the-job training to help employees develop new and 
important skills in this technical field. Haley's Metal Shop has made 
it their commitment to give back to the community by contributing to 
various organizations over the years, such as the United Way of York 
County, Biddeford's Community Bike Center, the Maine Cancer Foundation, 
and the Biddeford Free Clinic, among others. These commendable efforts 
both in the shop and in the community help make Haley's Metal Shop a 
great part of Biddeford and of Maine.
  I am pleased to join the Biddeford community in congratulating the 
Haley family and the dedicated employees of Haley's Metal Shop for this 
remarkable centennial achievement. I look forward to following their 
continued growth, and I thank them for their innovation, 
entrepreneurship, and hard work serving communities in the State of 
Maine.

                          ____________________



