

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 71 (Wednesday, April 26, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 71 (Wednesday, April 26, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H2852]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                    PRESIDENT TRUMP'S FIRST 100 DAYS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Maryland (Mr. Hoyer) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, at the end of the week, President Trump will 
reach his 100th day in office. These first 100 days, unfortunately, 
have been defined by chaos, contradiction, and conflicts of interest, 
and he has broken campaign promise after campaign promise.
  He claimed he would be the greatest jobs President God ever created, 
yet he has failed to put forward a single jobs bill and is taking 
credit for jobs that were created or announced long before he took 
office.
  He said he would fight for working families, yet his budget would 
slash investments that create jobs and opportunities. He said he would 
drain the swamp, yet he refuses to release his taxes, which would shed 
light on his own conflict of interest.
  Washington is now practically drowning in the swamp President Trump 
has rained down on our Capital. He promised to balance the budget in 9 
years. It took him, unfortunately, Mr. Speaker, less than 30 days to 
abandon that pledge, and his most recent proposals--tax cuts--would 
plunge our Nation even more deeply into debt.
  But perhaps most emblematic of the failure of this Presidency's first 
100 days was his attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act and 
purportedly to replace it.
  The President has promised insurance for everybody--not access, 
insurance for everybody. He said that over and over again. But 
TrumpCare would do exactly the opposite, kicking 24 million people off 
their coverage and precluding millions more from being able to get 
health insurance.
  The President promised coverage that is much less expensive and much 
better, but TrumpCare would force Americans to pay more for less. Not 
my observation--the Congressional Budget Office's.
  The President promised he wouldn't cut Medicaid, but like so many 
other broken promises, TrumpCare cuts Medicaid deeply. As was true of 
the President's campaign, he brought no unity to his attack on 
America's health, and his plan was not even voted on. Indeed, that has 
been followed by Republican efforts to make their proposal even more 
draconian.
  The second 100 days looms even worse as the Trump White House 
continues to be focused on kicking Americans off their coverage and 
making the rest pay more and getting less, saying it intends to bring 
an even more draconian version of its TrumpCare bill back.
  Mr. Speaker, Republicans control both the House, the Senate, and the 
administration. They are now, theoretically, the governing party, and 
whatever happens to our healthcare system on their watch will be their 
responsibility.
  So as this administration reaches its 100th day in office, it has a 
choice. It can continue to rack up the failures that it has amassed or 
it can turn the page to constructive cooperation.
  The President can, contrary to his promises, keep trying to take 
health coverage away from the American people and make it more 
expensive, or he can set partisanship aside and work across the aisle 
to make sure the Affordable Care Act works for everyone.
  We ought to be working together to accomplish that objective. He must 
start by ensuring that the promised cost-sharing reduction payments 
under the Affordable Care Act are made. If he does not, millions of 
people will be deeply hurt, the insurance system will be destabilized, 
and Americans across this country will find their policies more 
expensive.
  On jobs, he can continue doing nothing or he can finally show the 
American people a plan to invest in jobs and infrastructure. Send us 
the legislation you promised, Mr. President. And he can keep hiding his 
tax returns from the American people and ducking and weaving when it 
comes to his ties to Russia, or finally draw the curtain back and show 
what he has been hiding and support a bipartisan, independent 
commission to seek the answers Americans deserve and America must have.

  Mr. Speaker, in these first 100 days, if they are a prologue of that 
which is to come, I grieve for us all. America is a great and good 
nation, an exceptional nation and people. We must not, by demagoguery, 
irrationality, and negligence, on the wings of a tweet, allow it to be 
brought low.

                          ____________________



