

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 117 (Wednesday, July 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 117 (Wednesday, July 12, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3962-S3963]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           TEXT OF AMENDMENTS

  SA 257. Mr. CRAPO (for himself and Mr. Risch) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him to the bill S. 1519, to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2018 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes; which was 
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:

       At the end of subtitle C of title XXVIII, add the 
     following:

     SEC. 2826. LAND CONVEYANCE, MOUNTAIN HOME AIR FORCE BASE, 
                   IDAHO.

       (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Air Force 
     may convey, without consideration, to the City of Mountain 
     Home, Idaho (in this section referred to as the ``City''), 
     all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to 
     a parcel of real property, including improvements thereon, 
     consisting of approximately 4.25 miles of railroad spur 
     located near Mountain Home Air Force Base, Idaho, as further 
     described in subsection (b), for the purpose of economic 
     development.
       (b) Map and Legal Description.--
       (1) Finalizing legal descriptions.--As soon as practicable 
     after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
     the Air Force shall finalize a map and the legal description 
     of the property to be conveyed under subsection (a).
       (2) Minor errors.--The Secretary of the Air Force may 
     correct any minor errors in the map or the legal description.
       (3) Availability.--The map and legal description shall be 
     on file and available for public inspection.
       (c) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--
       (1) Payment required.--The Secretary may require the City 
     to cover all costs (except costs for environmental 
     remediation of the property) to be incurred by the Secretary, 
     or to reimburse the Secretary for costs incurred by the 
     Secretary, to carry out the conveyance under this section, 
     including survey costs, costs for environmental 
     documentation, and any other administrative costs related to 
     the conveyance. If amounts are collected from the City in 
     advance of the Secretary incurring the actual costs, and the 
     amount collected exceeds the costs actually incurred by the 
     Secretary to carry out the conveyance, the Secretary shall 
     refund the excess amount to the City.
       (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received under 
     paragraph (1) as reimbursement for costs incurred by the 
     Secretary to carry out the conveyance under subsection (a) 
     shall be credited to the fund or account that was used to 
     cover the costs incurred by the Secretary in carrying out the 
     conveyance, or to an appropriate fund or account currently 
     available to the Secretary for the purposes for which the 
     costs were paid. Amounts so credited shall be merged with 
     amounts in such fund or account and shall be available for 
     the same purposes, and subject to the same conditions and 
     limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
       (d) Use Reservation.--The Secretary may reserve a right to 
     temporarily use, for urgent reasons of national defense and 
     at no cost to the United States, all or a portion of the 
     railroad spur conveyed under subsection (a).
       (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may 
     require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
     with the conveyance under subsection (a) as the Secretary 
     considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United 
     States.

[[Page S3963]]

  

                          ____________________



