

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 102 (Thursday, June 15, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3555-S3556]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 236

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 236, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic 
beverages.


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, a bill to award the 
Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his heroic 
achievements and courageous contributions to peace in the Middle East.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to amend the 
Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving through the mail 
shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and to 
require the provision of advance electronic information on shipments of 
mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and for other purposes.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S. 407, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the railroad track 
maintenance credit.


                                 S. 486

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 486, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for the non-
application of Medicare competitive acquisition rates to complex 
rehabilitative wheelchairs and accessories.
  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 486, supra.


                                 S. 569

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Murphy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 569, a bill to 
amend title 54, United States Code, to provide consistent and reliable 
authority for, and for the funding of, the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund to maximize the effectiveness of the Fund for future generations, 
and for other purposes.


                                 S. 593

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 593, a bill to amend the 
Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to facilitate the 
establishment of additional or expanded public target ranges in certain 
States.


                                 S. 635

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 635, a bill 
to amend title 28, United States Code, to prohibit the exclusion of 
individuals from service on a Federal jury on account of sexual 
orientation or gender identity.


                                 S. 666

  At the request of Mr. Scott, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 666, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to modify the credit for production from 
advanced nuclear power facilities.


                                 S. 667

  At the request of Mr. Franken, the names of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Ms. Heitkamp), the Senator from West Virginia (Mr. Manchin) and 
the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) were added as cosponsors of 
S. 667, a bill to amend titles 5, 10, 37, and 38, United States Code, 
to ensure that an order to serve on active duty under section 12304a or 
12304b of title 10, United States Code, is treated the same as other 
orders to serve on active duty for determining the eligibility of 
members of the uniformed services and veterans for certain benefits and 
for calculating the deadlines for certain benefits.


                                 S. 678

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 678, a bill to declare 
English as the official language of the United States, to establish a 
uniform English language rule for naturalization, and to avoid 
misconstructions of the English language texts of the laws of the 
United States, pursuant to Congress' powers to provide for the general 
welfare of the

[[Page S3556]]

United States and to establish a uniform rule of naturalization under 
article I, section 8, of the Constitution.


                                 S. 708

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 708, a bill to improve 
the ability of U.S. Customs and Border Protection to interdict 
fentanyl, other synthetic opioids, and other narcotics and psychoactive 
substances that are illegally imported into the United States, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mr. Sasse) was added as a cosponsor of S. 720, a bill to amend the 
Export Administration Act of 1979 to include in the prohibitions on 
boycotts against allies of the United States boycotts fostered by 
international governmental organizations against Israel and to direct 
the Export-Import Bank of the United States to oppose boycotts against 
Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 722

  At the request of Mr. Menendez, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 722, an Act to Provide 
Congressional Review and to Counter Iranian and Russian Governments' 
Aggression.


                                 S. 839

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 839, a bill to allow for 
judicial review of any final rule addressing national emission 
standards for hazardous air pollutants for brick and structural clay 
products or for clay ceramics manufacturing before requiring compliance 
with such rule.


                                 S. 967

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from 
Mississippi (Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 967, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to increase access to 
ambulance services under the Medicare program and to reform payments 
for such services under such program, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 981

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 981, a bill to 
require the Secretary of Energy to establish an energy efficiency 
materials pilot program.


                                S. 1002

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. Blunt) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1002, a bill to enhance the 
ability of community financial institutions to foster economic growth 
and serve their communities, boost small businesses, increase 
individual savings, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1024

  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. Heller) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1024, a bill to amend title 
38, United States Code, to reform the rights and processes relating to 
appeals of decisions regarding claims for benefits under the laws 
administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1122

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the names of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. Stabenow) and the Senator from Nevada (Ms. Cortez Masto) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1122, a bill to amend the Occupational Safety 
and Health Act of 1970 to clarify when the time period for the issuance 
of citations under such Act begins and to require a rule to clarify 
that an employer's duty to make and maintain accurate records of work-
related injuries and illnesses is an ongoing obligation.


                                S. 1196

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue), the Senator from Texas (Mr. Cornyn), the Senator from 
Ohio (Mr. Portman), the Senator from South Carolina (Mr. Graham), the 
Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Toomey) and the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) were added as cosponsors of S. 1196, a bill to expand the 
capacity and capability of the ballistic missile defense system of the 
United States, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1268

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1268, a 
bill to amend parts B and E of title IV of the Social Security Act to 
allow States to provide foster care maintenance payments for children 
with parents in a licensed residential family-based treatment facility 
for substance abuse and to reauthorize grants to improve the well-being 
of families affected by substance abuse.


                                S. 1311

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the names of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Crapo) and the Senator from New York (Mrs. Gillibrand) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1311, a bill to provide assistance in abolishing 
human trafficking in the United States.


                                S. 1312

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1312, a bill to prioritize 
the fight against human trafficking in the United States.


                                S. 1343

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr. 
Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1343, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code to extend and modify certain charitable tax 
provisions.


                                S. 1350

  At the request of Mr. Alexander, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1350, a bill to amend the 
National Labor Relations Act with respect to the timing of elections 
and pre-election hearings and the identification of pre-election 
issues, and to require that lists of employees eligible to vote in 
organizing elections be provided to the National Labor Relations Board.


                               S. RES. 49

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 49, a 
resolution declaring that achieving the primary goal of the National 
Plan to Address Alzheimer's Disease of the Department of Health and 
Human Services to prevent and effectively treat Alzheimer's disease by 
2025 is an urgent national priority.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 232

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, his name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 232 proposed to S. 722, an Act to Provide Congressional 
Review and to Counter Iranian and Russian Governments' Aggression.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 240

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the names of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) and the Senator from Nebraska (Mr. Sasse) were added 
as cosponsors of amendment No. 240 proposed to S. 722, an Act to 
Provide Congressional Review and to Counter Iranian and Russian 
Governments' Aggression.


                           AMENDMENT NO. 250

  At the request of Mr. Gardner, the names of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio), the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. Wicker) and the Senator 
from Oklahoma (Mr. Inhofe) were added as cosponsors of amendment No. 
250 proposed to S. 722, an Act to Provide Congressional Review and to 
Counter Iranian and Russian Governments' Aggression.
  At the request of Mr. Van Hollen, his name was added as a cosponsor 
of amendment No. 250 proposed to S. 722, supra.

                          ____________________



