

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 60 (Thursday, April 6, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 60 (Thursday, April 6, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H2783-H2789]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. TIPTON:
       H.R. 1965. A bill to amend the Federal Land Policy and 
     Management Act of 1976 to improve the transparency and 
     oversight of land conveyances involving the sale, exchange, 
     or other disposal of National Forest System lands or public 
     lands under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management 
     or the acquisition of non-Federal lands for inclusion in the 
     National Forest System or administration as public lands, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Agriculture, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. TIPTON:
       H.R. 1966. A bill to provide protections and certainty for 
     private landowners related to resurveying certain Federal 
     land under the administrative jurisdiction of the Bureau of 
     Land Management, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. LAMBORN (for himself, Mr. Newhouse, and Mrs. 
             McMorris Rodgers):
       H.R. 1967. A bill to amend the Reclamation Project Act of 
     1939 to authorize pumped storage hydropower development 
     utilizing multiple Bureau of Reclamation reservoirs; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. DUNN:
       H.R. 1968. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     improve the authority of the Secretary of Defense to protect 
     certain military facilities, assets, and information from 
     unmanned aircraft; to the Committee on Armed Services, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Ms. Speier, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Takano, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Beyer, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, 
             Mr. Connolly, Mr. Sarbanes, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Yarmuth, 
             Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Evans, 
             Ms. Lofgren, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Polis, Mr. Cartwright, 
             Mr. Schiff, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Maxine 
             Waters of California, and Ms. Meng):
       H.R. 1969. A bill to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to 
     require testing of underground sources of drinking water in 
     connection with hydraulic fracturing operations, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. BACON (for himself, Mr. Fortenberry, and Mr. 
             Young of Iowa):
       H.R. 1970. A bill to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
     Act to provide for expedited naturalization processes for the 
     alien spouses of first responders who die as a result of 
     their employment, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     the Judiciary.
           By Mr. SMUCKER:
       H.R. 1971. A bill to provide for integrated plan permits, 
     to establish an Office of the Municipal Ombudsman, to promote 
     green infrastructure, and to require the revision of 
     financial capability guidance; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SMUCKER (for himself, Mr. Emmer, and Mr. 
             Peterson):
       H.R. 1972. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to waive the 
     requirement of certain veterans to make copayments for 
     hospital care and medical services in the case of an error by 
     the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana (for herself, Ms. Frankel of 
             Florida, and Mr. Goodlatte):
       H.R. 1973. A bill to prevent the sexual abuse of minors and 
     amateur athletes by requiring the prompt reporting of sexual 
     abuse to law enforcement authorities, and for

[[Page H2784]]

     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. KILDEE:
       H.R. 1974. A bill to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to 
     improve transparency under the national primary drinking 
     water regulations for lead and copper, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. McGOVERN (for himself and Mr. Issa):
       H.R. 1975. A bill to protect civilians from cluster 
     munitions, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services, and in addition to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. JENKINS of West Virginia (for himself and Mr. 
             Massie):
       H.R. 1976. A bill to nullify any generalized, routine or 
     ongoing reporting requirement imposed on a person licensed 
     under section 923 of title 18, United States Code, that is 
     based on the geographic location in which the licensee is 
     located or on the sale of multiple rifles or shotguns, or any 
     specific type of rifle or shotgun, to the same person; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (for herself and Mr. 
             Rutherford):
       H.R. 1977. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to transport an 
     individual employed at a medical facility of the Department 
     of Veterans Affairs between a parking facility and the 
     medical facility; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 1978. A bill to establish a grant program to empower 
     relatives, friends, and co-workers of domestic violence 
     victims to create safety plans; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 1979. A bill to increase the evidentiary standard 
     required to convict a person for a drug offense, to require 
     screening of law enforcement officers or others acting under 
     color of law participating in drug task forces, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 1980. A bill to require non-Federal prisons and 
     detention facilities holding Federal prisoners under a 
     contract with the Federal Government to make available to the 
     public the same information pertaining to facility operations 
     and to prisoners held in such facilities that Federal prisons 
     and detention facilities are required to make available; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 1981. A bill to codify an office within the Department 
     of Homeland Security with the mission of strengthening the 
     capacity of the agency to attract and retain highly trained 
     computer and information security professionals, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committees on Science, 
     Space, and Technology, and Homeland Security, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 1982. A bill to authorize funding to increase access 
     to mental health care treatment to reduce gun violence; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on the Judiciary, and Ways and Means, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 1983. A bill to enhance Federal enforcement of hate 
     crimes, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 1984. A bill to provide for research and education 
     with respect to triple-negative breast cancer, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 1985. A bill to provide for the appointment of 
     additional immigration judges; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 1986. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     establish an Ombudsman Office within the Transportation 
     Security Administration for the purpose of enhancing 
     transportation security by providing confidential, informal, 
     and neutral assistance to address work-place related problems 
     of Transportation Security Administration employees, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. RASKIN (for himself, Mr. Conyers, Mr. McGovern, 
             Ms. Lee, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Doggett, 
             Mr. Soto, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Gutierrez, 
             Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. 
             Takano, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Evans, and Mr. 
             Nadler):
       H.R. 1987. A bill to establish the Oversight Commission on 
     Presidential Capacity, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Rules, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. McCARTHY:
       H.R. 1988. A bill to designate the facility of the United 
     States Postal Service located at 1730 18th Street in 
     Bakersfield, California, as the ``Merle Haggard Post Office 
     Building''; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. McCARTHY (for himself, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. 
             Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. Hurd, Mr. Paulsen, Ms. 
             Stefanik, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Crawford, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. 
             Walden, Mr. Yoder, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, and Mrs. 
             McMorris Rodgers):
       H.R. 1989. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to carry out a high technology education pilot 
     program; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BANKS of Indiana (for himself and Mr. Courtney):
       H.R. 1990. A bill to amend title 23, United States Code, to 
     allow food concessions at State-owned interstate rest areas; 
     to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. BARLETTA:
       H.R. 1991. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to ensure that emergency services volunteers are not 
     taken into account as employees under the shared 
     responsibility requirements contained in the Patient 
     Protection and Affordable Care Act; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. BARR (for himself and Ms. Fudge):
       H.R. 1992. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior 
     to conduct a special resource study of the site of the Camp 
     Nelson Civil War Heritage Park in Jessamine County, Kentucky, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources.
           By Mrs. BEATTY (for herself, Mr. Stivers, and Mr. 
             Tiberi):
       H.R. 1993. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to enter into 
     partnerships with public and private entities to provide 
     legal services to homeless veterans and veterans at risk of 
     homelessness; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BILIRAKIS:
       H.R. 1994. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to make improvements to the information technology 
     system of the Veterans Benefits Administration of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. BLACK (for herself, Mr. Blumenauer, Mrs. 
             McMorris Rodgers, and Mrs. Dingell):
       H.R. 1995. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security to provide for national testing of a model of 
     Medicare Advantage value-based insurance design to meet the 
     needs of chronically ill Medicare Advantage enrollees; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. BONAMICI:
       H.R. 1996. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 and the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 to 
     regulate tax return preparers and refund anticipation payment 
     arrangements, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee on Financial 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania (for himself 
             and Mr. Fitzpatrick):
       H.R. 1997. A bill to encourage United States-Ukraine 
     cybersecurity cooperation and require a report regarding such 
     cooperation, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania (for himself 
             and Mr. Takano):
       H.R. 1998. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to notify the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the 
     Senate and the House of Representatives and certain Members 
     of Congress before the expiration or termination of a HUD-
     VASH contract, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. BUCK (for himself, Mr. Palmer, Mr. Biggs, Mr. 
             Meadows, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. 
             DesJarlais, Mr. Babin, Mr. Brat, Mr. Grothman, Mr. 
             Polis, Mr. Griffith, Mr. Renacci, Mr. Sanford, and 
             Mr. Perry):
       H.R. 1999. A bill to require an annual report on offsets 
     and pay-fors, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Budget.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Beyer, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Capuano, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. 
             Connolly, Mr. Cummings, Mr. DeFazio, Ms. DelBene, Ms. 
             DeGette, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             Huffman, Mr. Keating, Mr. Langevin, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Loebsack, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Lynch, Ms. McCollum, Mr. 
             Moulton, Ms. Meng, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Polis, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Sarbanes, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Schiff,

[[Page H2785]]

             Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, Ms. Speier, Mr. Takano, Mr. Thompson of 
             California, and Mrs. Watson Coleman):
       H.R. 2000. A bill to require regulation of wastes 
     associated with the exploration, development, or production 
     of crude oil, natural gas, or geothermal energy under the 
     Solid Waste Disposal Act, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Aguilar, Mr. Beyer, 
             Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Capuano, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
             Mr. Connolly, Mr. Cummings, Mr. DeFazio, Ms. DelBene, 
             Ms. DeGette, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Grijalva, 
             Mr. Huffman, Mr. Keating, Mr. Langevin, Ms. Lee, Mr. 
             Loebsack, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Lynch, Ms. McCollum, Mr. 
             Moulton, Ms. Meng, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Polis, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Sarbanes, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Mr. Smith of Washington, Ms. Speier, Mr. 
             Takano, Ms. Tsongas, and Mrs. Watson Coleman):
       H.R. 2001. A bill to amend the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act and direct the Secretary of the Interior to 
     conduct a study with respect to stormwater runoff from oil 
     and gas operations, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Ms. CASTOR of Florida (for herself, Mr. Crist, Mr. 
             Hastings, and Mrs. Murphy of Florida):
       H.R. 2002. A bill to amend the Outer Continental Shelf 
     Lands Act to prohibit oil and gas preleasing, leasing, and 
     related activities in certain areas of the Outer Continental 
     Shelf off the coast of Florida, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. CASTRO of Texas:
       H.R. 2003. A bill to amend the Every Student Succeeds Act 
     to provide grants for high-quality, local prekindergarten 
     programs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. CHABOT (for himself, Mr. Chaffetz, Mr. Harris, 
             Mr. Yoder, and Mr. Gibbs):
       H.R. 2004. A bill to modify the provisions of the 
     Immigration and Nationality Act relating to nonimmigrant 
     visas issued under section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(b) of such Act, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. CICILLINE:
       H.R. 2005. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for the taxation of income of controlled 
     foreign corporations attributable to imported property; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. COFFMAN:
       H.R. 2006. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the procurement practices of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. COLLINS of New York (for himself and Mr. 
             LaMalfa):
       H.R. 2007. A bill to prohibit the awarding of Federal Pell 
     Grants to incarcerated individuals, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mrs. COMSTOCK (for herself, Mr. Harper, and Mr. 
             Rodney Davis of Illinois):
       H.R. 2008. A bill to increase funding for the 10-Year 
     Pediatric Research Initiative Fund by eliminating taxpayer 
     financing of presidential election campaigns; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Energy and Commerce, and House Administration, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania (for himself and Mr. 
             Peters):
       H.R. 2009. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to provide clarity with respect to the 
     regulation of diagnostic imaging devices intended for use 
     with contrast agents; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. CRAMER (for himself, Mr. McKinley, and Mr. 
             Duncan of South Carolina):
       H.R. 2010. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to enhance the requirements for secure geological 
     storage of carbon dioxide for purposes of the carbon dioxide 
     sequestration credit; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. CURBELO of Florida (for himself and Mr. Veasey):
       H.R. 2011. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for the issuance of exempt facility bonds for 
     qualified carbon dioxide capture facilities; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. DeGETTE (for herself, Mr. Smith of Washington, 
             Mr. Tonko, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Tsongas, 
             Mr. Takano, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Polis, Mr. 
             Cartwright, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. 
             Lee, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Engel, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Sarbanes, 
             Ms. Norton, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Eshoo, Mrs. 
             Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Serrano, Mr. 
             Yarmuth, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Pallone, Ms. Meng, Ms. Maxine 
             Waters of California, and Ms. Lofgren):
       H.R. 2012. A bill to repeal the exemption for hydraulic 
     fracturing in the Safe Drinking Water Act, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. DELANEY (for himself, Mr. Fleischmann, and Mr. 
             Loebsack):
       H.R. 2013. A bill to extend the eligibility of redesignated 
     areas as HUBZones from 3 years to 7 years; to the Committee 
     on Small Business.
           By Mr. DELANEY (for himself, Mr. Cartwright, and Mr. 
             Polis):
       H.R. 2014. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to impose an excise tax on greenhouse gas emissions; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DOGGETT (for himself, Ms. Adams, Ms. Barragan, 
             Mr. Beyer, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Brownley 
             of California, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Carson 
             of Indiana, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Castro of Texas, Ms. 
             Judy Chu of California, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Clarke of 
             New York, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Cuellar, Mrs. Davis of 
             California, Ms. DeLauro, Ms. DelBene, Mr. Ellison, 
             Mr. Gallego, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Gonzalez of Texas, 
             Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Higgins of 
             New York, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Jayapal, Ms. Eddie 
             Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Kildee, 
             Mr. Kind, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Mr. Lewis of 
             Georgia, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Ms. 
             Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Meeks, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Nolan, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Payne, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Price 
             of North Carolina, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. Scott of 
             Virginia, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Soto, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Ms. Titus, Mrs. Torres, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Welch, and Mr. Wilson of South 
             Carolina):
       H.R. 2015. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     simply the financial aid application process, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee (for himself and Mr. 
             Lipinski):
       H.R. 2016. A bill to mandate the monthly formulation and 
     publication of a consumer price index specifically for senior 
     citizens for the purpose of establishing an accurate Social 
     Security COLA for such citizens; to the Committee on 
     Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. EMMER:
       H.R. 2017. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for the indexing of certain assets for 
     purposes of determining gain or loss of eligible individuals; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. FOSTER (for himself and Mr. Takano):
       H.R. 2018. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to establish a program to populate downloadable tax 
     forms with taxpayer return information; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Ms. FOXX (for herself and Mr. Smith of New Jersey):
       H.R. 2019. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to exclude certain abortions from the definition of 
     qualified medical expenses for purposes of distributions from 
     health savings accounts; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. GAETZ (for himself and Mr. Soto):
       H.R. 2020. A bill to provide for the rescheduling of 
     marijuana into schedule III of the Controlled Substances Act; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Miss GONZALEZ-COLON of Puerto Rico (for herself, Mr. 
             MacArthur, Mr. Duffy, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Young of 
             Alaska, Mr. Banks of Indiana, Ms. Plaskett, and Mr. 
             Curbelo of Florida):
       H.R. 2021. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to repeal the limitation on the cover over of distilled 
     spirits taxes to Puerto Rico and Virgin Islands; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. GOSAR:
       H.R. 2022. A bill to ensure certain safety measures are 
     utilized in the interest of public health security with 
     respect to labeling and transporting human tissue specimen or 
     collection of specimens into interstate commerce; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana (for himself, Mr. Gene Green 
             of Texas, Mr. Wittman, and Mr. Webster of Florida):
       H.R. 2023. A bill to modernize recreational fisheries 
     management; to the Committee on Natural Resources.

[[Page H2786]]

  

           By Mr. GRAVES of Missouri (for himself, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
             Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. Long, Mr. Luetkemeyer, 
             Mr. Smith of Missouri, Mr. Bost, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. 
             Clay, Mr. Richmond, Ms. Moore, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Bishop 
             of Michigan, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Duncan of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Jordan, Mr. Barr, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. 
             Raskin, and Mr. Issa):
       H.R. 2024. A bill to protect consumers from discriminatory 
     State taxes on motor vehicle rentals; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. GRIFFITH (for himself and Mr. Costello of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 2025. A bill to amend section 505(c)(3)(E) of the 
     Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to prevent certain 
     applications from being considered ineligible for approval 
     under section 505(c) of such Act on the basis that the 
     proposed labeling includes information describing abuse-
     deterrent properties that otherwise would be blocked by 
     exclusivity under clause (iii) or (iv) of section 
     503(c)(3)(E) of such Act, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. GUTHRIE:
       H.R. 2026. A bill to improve patient access to emerging 
     medication therapies by clarifying the scope of permitted 
     health care economic and scientific information 
     communications between biopharmaceutical manufacturers and 
     population health decision makers; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. HARPER (for himself and Mr. Brady of 
             Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 2027. A bill to amend title 40, United States Code, to 
     include as part of the buildings and grounds of the National 
     Gallery of Art any buildings and other areas within the 
     boundaries of any real estate or other property interests 
     acquired by the National Gallery of Art; to the Committee on 
     House Administration.
           By Mr. HULTGREN (for himself, Mr. LaHood, Mr. Banks of 
             Indiana, Mr. Aderholt, Mrs. Hartzler, Mr. Jody B. 
             Hice of Georgia, and Mr. Babin):
       H.R. 2028. A bill to authorize the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services, acting through the Administration for 
     Children & Families, to award grants on a competitive basis 
     to public and private entities to provide exclusively 
     education in sexual risk avoidance (meaning avoiding all 
     sexual risk by voluntarily refraining from nonmarital sexual 
     activity); to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas (for himself and Ms. Eddie 
             Bernice Johnson of Texas):
       H.R. 2029. A bill to require the Administrator of the 
     Federal Highway Administration to issue a final rule that 
     approves the use of Clearview font for positive contrast 
     legends on guide signs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas (for himself and Mr. Neal):
       H.R. 2030. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to extend the rollover period for plan loan offset 
     amounts and to modify the rules relating to hardship 
     withdrawals from cash or deferred arrangements; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas (for himself, Mr. Tiberi, 
             Mr. Smith of Nebraska, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
             Renacci, and Mr. Reed):
       H.R. 2031. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to prevent concurrent receipt of unemployment benefits 
     and Social Security disability insurance, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. JONES:
       H.R. 2032. A bill to direct the Secretary of the Interior 
     to enter into an agreement to provide for management of the 
     free-roaming wild horses in and around the Currituck National 
     Wildlife Refuge; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. KIHUEN (for himself, Mr. Schneider, Mr. 
             Cicilline, Mr. Langevin, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Blumenauer, 
             Mr. Raskin, and Ms. Slaughter):
       H.R. 2033. A bill to modernize the Undetectable Firearms 
     Act of 1988; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. KILMER (for himself, Mr. Renacci, Miss Rice of 
             New York, Mr. Amodei, Mr. Peters, Mr. Bucshon, Mr. 
             Jones, Mr. Polis, Mr. Barletta, Mrs. Murphy of 
             Florida, Mr. Buck, and Mr. Sarbanes):
       H.R. 2034. A bill to amend the Federal Election Campaign 
     Act of 1971 to reduce the number of members of the Federal 
     Election Commission from 6 to 5, to revise the method of 
     selection and terms of service of members of the Commission, 
     to distribute the powers of the Commission between the Chair 
     and the remaining members, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on House Administration.
           By Mr. KILMER (for himself, Mr. Cole, Mr. Young of 
             Alaska, Mr. Kind, and Ms. Jayapal):
       H.R. 2035. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to recognize Indian tribal governments for purposes of 
     determining under the adoption credit whether a child has 
     special needs; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. KILMER (for himself and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 2036. A bill to prohibit any reduction in the amount 
     of the per diem allowance to which members of the Army, Navy, 
     Air Force, and Marine Corps or civilian employees of the 
     Department of Defense are entitled based on the duration of 
     temporary duty assignments or official travel, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LANCE:
       H.R. 2037. A bill to amend the Veterans Access, Choice, and 
     Accountability Act of 2014 to expand and make permanent the 
     Veterans Choice Program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. LARSON of Connecticut:
       H.R. 2038. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to establish a stewardship fee on the production and 
     importation of opioid pain relievers, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. LEVIN (for himself, Mr. Pascrell, and Mr. Ryan 
             of Ohio):
       H.R. 2039. A bill to amend title VII of the Tariff Act of 
     1930 to clarify that countervailing duties may be imposed to 
     address subsidies relating to a fundamentally undervalued 
     currency of any foreign country; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. LEWIS of Minnesota:
       H.R. 2040. A bill to impose consequences on the Department 
     of Defense for any failure to meet statutory deadlines for 
     validation of financial statements of the Department of 
     Defense as ready for audit and for completion of a full audit 
     on financial statements of the Department of Defense for 
     fiscal year 2018; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. LOEBSACK:
       H.R. 2041. A bill to direct the Secretary of Labor to carry 
     out a grant program for employers to develop and carry out 
     job training programs; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. LOEBSACK:
       H.R. 2042. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to 
     establish a Frontline Providers Loan Repayment Program; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. LOFGREN (for herself, Mr. Gutierrez, Ms. Roybal-
             Allard, Mr. Conyers, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. 
             McGovern, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, 
             Mr. Crowley, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Grijalva, Mrs. 
             Napolitano, Mr. Quigley, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Sires, Mr. 
             Yarmuth, Ms. DelBene, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Ellison, Mr. 
             Scott of Virginia, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Moore, Mrs. 
             Torres, and Mr. Lewis of Georgia):
       H.R. 2043. A bill to provide access to counsel for children 
     and other vulnerable populations; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. LOWENTHAL (for himself, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, 
             Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, 
             Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Conyers, Ms. DeGette, Ms. 
             DelBene, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Evans, Mr. Foster, Mr. 
             Gottheimer, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Huffman, Ms. Jackson 
             Lee, Mr. Khanna, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. 
             McNerney, Ms. Moore, Mr. Payne, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Ryan 
             of Ohio, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Speier, Mr. Swalwell of 
             California, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Walz, Mrs. Watson 
             Coleman, Mr. Welch, and Mr. Yarmuth):
       H.R. 2044. A bill to designate as wilderness certain 
     Federal portions of the red rock canyons of the Colorado 
     Plateau and the Great Basin Deserts in the State of Utah for 
     the benefit of present and future generations of people in 
     the United States; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico (for himself, Mr. 
             Rush, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. Cardenas, Ms. Clarke of New 
             York, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Tonko, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. 
             Pascrell, Ms. Norton, Ms. Lee, Ms. Pingree, Ms. 
             Moore, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mrs. Napolitano, 
             Mr. Conyers, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. McGovern, and Ms. 
             Slaughter):
       H.R. 2045. A bill to require the Secretary of Energy, in 
     coordination with the Secretary of Labor, to establish a 
     program to provide for workforce training and education, at 
     community colleges, in sustainable energy; to the Committee 
     on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico (for himself, Mr. 
             Engel, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mrs. Napolitano, and 
             Mr. Loebsack):
       H.R. 2046. A bill to provide for a report on best practices 
     for peer-support specialist programs, to authorize grants for 
     behavioral health paraprofessional training and education, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico (for himself, Mr. 
             Kennedy, Ms. Clarke of New York, and Mrs. 
             Napolitano):
       H.R. 2047. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for behavioral health infrastructure 
     improvements under the Medicaid program; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.

[[Page H2787]]

  

           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico:
       H.R. 2048. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security 
     Act to incentivize the development of community-based 
     interventions to reduce health disparities among certain 
     populations, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico (for himself, Ms. 
             Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Pearce, Ms. 
             Bordallo, Mr. O'Halleran, Ms. Titus, Ms. DeGette, Mr. 
             Perlmutter, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Soto, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Heck, Ms. 
             Jayapal, Mr. Gallego, Ms. Sinema, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Higgins of New York, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             Ms. DelBene, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Doggett, 
             and Mr. Schrader):
       H.R. 2049. A bill to amend the Radiation Exposure 
     Compensation Act to improve compensation for workers involved 
     in uranium mining, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Education and the Workforce, and Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself, 
             Mr. Bilirakis, and Mr. Cohen):
       H.R. 2050. A bill to provide for a Medicare demonstration 
     project to evaluate the fiscal impact of covering low vision 
     devices as durable medical equipment under part B of the 
     Medicare program; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself and Mr. Welch):
       H.R. 2051. A bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and 
     Cosmetic Act to ensure that eligible product developers have 
     competitive access to approved drugs and licensed biological 
     products, so as to enable eligible product developers to 
     develop and test new products, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. McSALLY (for herself, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Jones, 
             Mr. Russell, Mr. Knight, Mr. Bacon, Mrs. Comstock, 
             Mrs. Mimi Walters of California, Ms. Speier, Ms. 
             Tsongas, Mr. Turner, and Ms. Gabbard):
       H.R. 2052. A bill to amend the Uniform Code of Military 
     Justice to prohibit the wrongful broadcast or distribution of 
     intimate visual images; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Ms. McSALLY (for herself, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. 
             Amodei, Mrs. Noem, and Mr. Young of Alaska):
       H.R. 2053. A bill to amend the Surface Mining Control and 
     Reclamation Act of 1977 to enhance and support mining and 
     mineral engineering programs in the United States by funding 
     activities at mining schools, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. MEADOWS:
       H.R. 2054. A bill to repeal the violation of sovereign 
     nations' laws and privacy matters; to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means.
           By Mr. MESSER (for himself, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Reichert, 
             Mr. Polis, Mr. Kind, Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, 
             and Mr. Norcross):
       H.R. 2055. A bill to amend the Employee Retirement Income 
     Security Act of 1974 to require a lifetime income disclosure; 
     to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mrs. MURPHY of Florida (for herself, Ms. Velazquez, 
             and Mr. Moulton):
       H.R. 2056. A bill to amend the Small Business Act to 
     provide for expanded participation in the microloan program, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Small Business.
           By Mr. POCAN (for himself, Ms. Norton, Mr. Conyers, Ms. 
             Moore, Ms. Lee, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Cicilline, and 
             Mr. Grijalva):
       H.R. 2057. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to limit the interest deduction for excessive interest 
     of members of financial reporting groups and to terminate the 
     deferral of active income of controlled foreign corporations, 
     and to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to require 
     the disclosure of total corporate tax paid by a corporation 
     in each annual report required to be filed under such Act, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Financial Services, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself, Mr. Weber of Texas, 
             Mr. Cook, and Mr. Perry):
       H.R. 2058. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for disclosure for charity employees and 
     board members previously implicated in terror finance; to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. POLIS (for himself, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Blumenauer, 
             Mr. Capuano, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Mr. Connolly, Ms. DeGette, Mr. 
             Ellison, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Huffman, Mr. 
             Keating, Mr. Langevin, Ms. Lee, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Meng, Mrs. Napolitano, 
             Ms. Norton, Mr. Perlmutter, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Pocan, 
             Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Sarbanes, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, Mr. Soto, Ms. Speier, Mr. Takano, Mr. 
             Tonko, Ms. Tsongas, and Ms. Maxine Waters of 
             California):
       H.R. 2059. A bill to amend the Clean Air Act to eliminate 
     the exemption for aggregation of emissions from oil and gas 
     sources, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. REICHERT (for himself, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, and Mr. Reed):
       H.R. 2060. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to include foster care transition youth as members of 
     targeted groups for purposes of the work opportunity credit; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN (for herself, Mr. Engel, Mr. Yoho, 
             and Mr. Sherman):
       H.R. 2061. A bill to reauthorize the North Korean Human 
     Rights Act of 2004, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Foreign Affairs.
           By Ms. ROSEN (for herself and Mr. Lamborn):
       H.R. 2062. A bill to authorize assistance, upon request of 
     the Government of Israel, for the development, maintenance, 
     enhancement, and sustainment, and procurement of anti-missile 
     defense systems; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. SCHNEIDER:
       H.R. 2063. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     require certain training as a condition of registration to 
     prescribe or dispense opioids for the treatment of pain or 
     pain management, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SERRANO:
       H.R. 2064. A bill to amend the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act 
     and the egg, meat, and poultry inspection laws to ensure that 
     consumers receive notification regarding food products 
     produced from crops, livestock, or poultry raised on land on 
     which sewage sludge was applied; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
     Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Ms. SHEA-PORTER:
       H.R. 2065. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for an option for any citizen or 
     permanent resident of the United States to buy into Medicare; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Ms. SPEIER (for herself and Ms. Titus):
       H.R. 2066. A bill to prevent abusive billing of ancillary 
     services to the Medicare program, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. STIVERS (for himself, Mrs. Beatty, and Mr. 
             Tiberi):
       H.R. 2067. A bill to amend title 31, United States Code, to 
     save the American taxpayers money by immediately altering the 
     metallic composition of the one-cent, five-cent, dime, and 
     quarter dollar coins, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. TAKANO (for himself, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Ms. DelBene, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Rush, Ms. 
             Speier, Mr. Blumenauer, and Mr. Peters):
       H.R. 2068. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide veterans affected by school closures certain relief 
     and restoration of educational benefits, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. TURNER (for himself, Mr. Kildee, Mr. Langevin, 
             Mr. Marino, Mr. Hill, Ms. Moore, and Ms. Bass):
       H.R. 2069. A bill to provide priority under certain 
     federally assisted housing programs to assisting youths who 
     are aging out of foster care, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mr. VEASEY (for himself, Ms. Lee, Mr. Ellison, Ms. 
             DelBene, and Mr. Grijalva):
       H.R. 2070. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to include guidance on how dependent students with parents 
     without SSNs may obtain Federal student assistance; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. VEASEY:
       H.R. 2071. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to prohibit institutions of higher education from denying 
     students admission on the basis of immigration or 
     naturalization status; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. VEASEY:
       H.R. 2072. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to provide alternative

[[Page H2788]]

     identity verification procedures for individuals applying for 
     Federal student assistance, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. VELAZQUEZ (for herself, Mr. Vargas, Mr. 
             Gutierrez, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Espaillat, 
             Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Lee, Mr. Veasey, Mr. 
             McGovern, Mr. Correa, Ms. Moore, Mrs. Torres, Ms. 
             Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mrs. Carolyn B. 
             Maloney of New York, and Mr. Serrano):
       H.R. 2073. A bill to amend section 287 of the Immigration 
     and Nationality Act to prohibit immigration officers or 
     agents of the Department of Homeland Security from wearing 
     clothing or other items bearing the word ``police''; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. WALDEN:
       H.R. 2074. A bill to amend chapter 3203 of title 54, United 
     States Code, to require compliance with the National 
     Environmental Policy Act of 1969 as a condition on the 
     designation of national monuments; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. WALDEN:
       H.R. 2075. A bill to adjust the eastern boundary of the 
     Deschutes Canyon-Steelhead Falls Wilderness Study Area in the 
     State of Oregon to facilitate fire prevention and response 
     activities in order to protect adjacent private property, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California (for herself, Mr. Al 
             Green of Texas, Ms. Moore, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Smith of 
             Washington, Mr. McNerney, Ms. Slaughter, Mrs. Torres, 
             Mr. Ellison, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. 
             Lynch, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, and Ms. Lee):
       H.R. 2076. A bill to provide a path to end homelessness in 
     the United States, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Financial Services, and in addition to the Committee on 
     the Budget, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. WENSTRUP (for himself and Mr. Ruiz):
       H.R. 2077. A bill to amend the Employee Retirement Income 
     Security Act of 1974 to require a group health plan (or 
     health insurance coverage offered in connection with such a 
     plan) to provide an exceptions process for any medication 
     step therapy protocol, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. WILLIAMS:
       H.R. 2078. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to simplify individual income and corporate tax rates, 
     to set a maximum on the capital gains rate, to make permanent 
     the deduction for dividends received for repatriated foreign 
     earnings, to reduce the rate of payroll and self-employment 
     taxes, to make 100 percent bonus depreciation permanent, and 
     to repeal the Federal estate and gift taxes; to the Committee 
     on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska (for himself and Mr. Moulton):
       H.R. 2079. A bill to preserve United States fishing 
     heritage through a national program dedicated to training and 
     assisting the next generation of commercial fishermen; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.R. 2080. A bill to provide that the management plan 
     entitled ``Eastern Interior Proposed Resource Management Plan 
     and Final Environmental Impact Statement`` shall have no 
     force or effect; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. ZELDIN (for himself and Mr. Schweikert):
       H.R. 2081. A bill to amend the Iran Threat Reduction and 
     Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 to modify the requirement to 
     impose sanctions with respect to the provision of specialized 
     financial messaging services to the Central Bank of Iran and 
     other sanctioned Iranian financial institutions, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
     addition to the Committees on the Judiciary, and Financial 
     Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.J. Res. 95. A joint resolution expressing support for 
     designation of September 2017 as ``Gospel Music Heritage 
     Month'' and honoring gospel music for its valuable and 
     longstanding contributions to the culture of the United 
     States; to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.J. Res. 96. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by the Department of the 
     Interior relating to ``Eastern Interior Proposed Resource 
     Management Plan and Final Environmental Impact Statement''; 
     to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska:
       H.J. Res. 97. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by the Department of 
     Agriculture relating to ``Tongass National Forest Land and 
     Resource Management Plan Amendment''; to the Committee on 
     Natural Resources.
           By Mr. SESSIONS:
       H. Con. Res. 48. Concurrent resolution providing for a 
     conditional adjournment of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to. considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Cicilline, 
             Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. DeGette, Ms. DelBene, Mr. 
             Deutch, Mrs. Dingell, Ms. Esty, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. 
             Hanabusa, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Norton, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. 
             Keating, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Krishnamoorthi, 
             Ms. Kuster of New Hampshire, Mr. Lowenthal, Mrs. 
             Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Moulton, Mr. 
             Norcross, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Peters, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Price of North Carolina, Miss Rice of New York, Ms. 
             Sanchez, Ms. Sinema, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. Speier, Mr. 
             Swalwell of California, Mr. Takano, Mr. Tonko, Ms. 
             Tsongas, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Welch, Ms. Wilson 
             of Florida, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, and 
             Mr. Polis):
       H. Con. Res. 49. Concurrent resolution supporting the goals 
     and ideals of GLSEN's 2017 Day of Silence in bringing 
     attention to anti-lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and 
     queer name-calling, bullying, and harassment faced by 
     individuals in schools; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. TORRES (for herself, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. 
             Bordallo, Mr. Foster, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mrs. Davis of 
             California, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Norton, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Aguilar, 
             Mr. Payne, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. Ruiz, Ms. 
             Lofgren, and Mr. DeSaulnier):
       H. Con. Res. 50. Concurrent resolution supporting the goals 
     and ideals of National Public Safety Telecommunicators Week; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LaHood (for himself, Ms. Kaptur, and Mr. 
             Abraham):
       H. Res. 252. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives on the challenges posed to long-term 
     stability in Lebanon by the conflict in Syria and supporting 
     the establishment of safe zones in Syria; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina (for himself, Mr. 
             Keating, Mr. Schiff, and Mr. Latta):
       H. Res. 253. A resolution expressing gratitude and 
     appreciation for the entry of the United States into World 
     War I; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Armed Services, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. CASTOR of Florida (for herself, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
             Peters, and Mr. Walz):
       H. Res. 255. A resolution commemorating the 30th 
     anniversary of United States Special Operations Command; to 
     the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Mr. Shimkus, Mr. Sires, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Barr, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Ms. 
             Shea-Porter, Mr. Donovan, Mr. Issa, Mr. Cicilline, 
             Mr. McEachin, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Evans, Mr. 
             Engel, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Raskin, Mr. Banks of Indiana, 
             Mr. Schiff, Mr. Kennedy, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Diaz-Balart, 
             Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Turner, Mr. Cook, Mr. Wittman, 
             Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Moulton, Mr. Suozzi, Mr. 
             Cole, Mr. Keating, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Wilson of 
             South Carolina, and Ms. Stefanik):
       H. Res. 256. A resolution expressing support for the 
     countries of Eastern Europe and the North Atlantic Treaty 
     Organization; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mrs. COMSTOCK (for herself, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. 
             Taylor, and Mr. Curbelo of Florida):
       H. Res. 257. A resolution condemning hate crime and any 
     other form of racism, religious or ethnic bias, 
     discrimination, incitement to violence, or animus targeting a 
     minority in the United States; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. CRIST:
       H. Res. 258. A resolution urging the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to prioritize the hiring of mental health 
     professionals; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. DeSANTIS (for himself, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. 
             McCaul, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Weber 
             of Texas, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. Sires, and Mr. Smith of 
             New Jersey):
       H. Res. 259. A resolution expressing concern and 
     condemnation over the political, economic, social, and 
     humanitarian crisis in Venezuela; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Mr. Visclosky, and Mr. 
             Fortenberry):
       H. Res. 260. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives in support of the International Atomic 
     Energy

[[Page H2789]]

     Agency's (IAEA) nuclear security role; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. HUNTER (for himself, Mr. Kinzinger, Mr. Knight, 
             Mr. Peters, Mr. Issa, and Mr. Jones):
       H. Res. 261. A resolution honoring and remembering on 
     National Former POW Recognition Day and the 75th Anniversary 
     of the Fall of Bataan on the Philippine Islands, the brave 
     men and women who as prisoners of war gave their liberty to 
     ensure ours, thus embodying the enduring spirit of American 
     freedom and determination; to the Committee on Foreign 
     Affairs.
           By Ms. LEE:
       H. Res. 262. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of National Youth HIV & AIDS Awareness Day; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for himself, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Raskin, and Ms. Lofgren):
       H. Res. 263. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of May 4, 2017, as a ``National Day of Reason'' 
     and recognizing the importance of reason in the betterment of 
     humanity; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. LIPINSKI (for himself, Mrs. Davis of California, 
             Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. Hanabusa, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. 
             Kilmer, Mr. McNerney, Ms. Norton, Ms. Rosen, Mr. 
             Schiff, and Mr. Soto):
       H. Res. 264. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of Mathematics and Statistics Awareness Month; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. LOEBSACK (for himself and Mr. Grijalva):
       H. Res. 265. A resolution expressing support for the 
     designation of the week of April 24, 2017, through April 28, 
     2017, as National Specialized Instructional Support Personnel 
     Awareness Week; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. LOVE (for herself, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Stewart, Mr. 
             Chaffetz, and Mr. Bishop of Utah):
       H. Res. 266. A resolution designating the week of April 15, 
     2017, through April 23, 2017, as ``National Park Week''; to 
     the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. MARSHALL (for himself, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, 
             and Mr. Yoder):
       H. Res. 267. A resolution recognizing the 100th anniversary 
     of the 1st Infantry Division; to the Committee on Armed 
     Services.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. 
             Ryan of Ohio, and Ms. Tsongas):
       H. Res. 268. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives regarding the trafficking of illicit 
     fentanyl into the United States from Mexico and China; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committees on the Judiciary, and Energy and Commerce, for a 
     period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each 
     case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. REED (for himself, Ms. Speier, Mr. Brendan F. 
             Boyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Foster, 
             Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Ryan 
             of Ohio, Ms. Norton, Mr. Yarmuth, Ms. McCollum, Mr. 
             Meehan, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Soto, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Costa, 
             Mr. Cook, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Jayapal, Mr. McEachin, Ms. 
             Rosen, Mr. Poe of Texas, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
             Mr. Gallagher, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Moulton, Ms. Jenkins of 
             Kansas, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Cicilline, Mrs. 
             Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Mr. Kind, Mr. Rush, Mr. Pearce, Mr. 
             Lipinski, Mr. Raskin, Mrs. Mimi Walters of 
             California, Mrs. Demings, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. 
             Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. Keating, Mr. Katko, Mr. 
             Joyce of Ohio, Mr. Faso, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. 
             Peters, Mr. Coffman, and Ms. Kuster of New 
             Hampshire):
       H. Res. 269. A resolution recognizing and supporting the 
     goals and ideals of National Sexual Assault Awareness and 
     Prevention Month; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD (for herself, Mr. Wittman, Mr. 
             Gene Green of Texas, Mr. McGovern, Ms. Granger, Ms. 
             Slaughter, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, 
             Mr. Hastings, Mrs. Dingell, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, 
             Ms. Matsui, Ms. Adams, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, 
             Mr. Grijalva, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Moore, 
             Mr. Rutherford, and Ms. Barragan):
       H. Res. 270. A resolution supporting the goals and ideals 
     of National Public Health Week; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. YOHO (for himself, Mr. Royce of California, Ms. 
             Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Diaz-Balart, and Mr. Harper):
       H. Res. 271. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that the United States Trade 
     Representative should commence negotiations to enter into a 
     bilateral trade agreement with Taiwan; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.

                          ____________________



