

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 112 (Thursday, June 29, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5367-H5368]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                              {time}  1845
                        HONORING WILBERT AUSTIN

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Johnson of Louisiana). Under the 
Speaker's announced policy of January 3, 2017, the gentleman from Texas 
(Mr. Flores) is recognized for the remainder of the hour as the 
designee of the majority leader.
  Mr. FLORES. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise to honor Reverend Wilbert 
Austin of Waco, Texas, who passed away on June 19, 2017.
  Wilbert grew up poor in a small shack in the southern part of Waco in 
a racially segregated area called Sandtown. His father was a day 
laborer who picked cotton for a living, while his mother was a 
laundress and cafe worker. Wilbert used to play by the old rendering 
plant that was next to the cemetery in Sandtown.
  Even in their poverty, Wilbert's parents were able to raise five 
children. His meager upbringing is something that would shape him for 
the rest of his life and molded him into a great servant.
  During his life, Wilbert worked many jobs, including working for a 
glass bottle manufacturer, Owens-Illinois, and as a leader of the local 
chapter of the NAACP. During his time at the NAACP, he was known for 
advocating for civil rights in Waco. Always seeking to make Waco a 
better place, he would often make sure that children and families had a 
safe area to play and enjoy by keeping out drug dealers, doing so on a 
face-to-face basis, if needed.
  Wilbert was a passionate advocate for his Christian faith and decided 
to share his faith in the pulpit. He became a pastor of Moody's 
Peaceful Rest Baptist Church, where he would serve for 38 years. He was 
known to his congregation and around Waco as someone with a servant's 
heart. Wilbert would mow lawns for the elderly and collect gift cards 
at Christmas to distribute to needy families.
  In 1974, Wilbert led an effort to change local city government, and 
that made him an important part of Waco's history.
  In the 1950s, the city had adopted an at-large district after an 
African-American individual nearly won a city council seat. As a result 
of his tireless and dedicated efforts, Waco dropped the at-large system 
and divided its city into five districts, with each district having a 
single elected representative. His perseverance changed the at-large 
system because it did not fairly represent the electoral choices of the 
African-American areas of Waco.
  Though he never believed he would run for city council, Wilbert's 
desire to serve eventually led him to campaign for a seat. Wilbert 
showed great perseverance as he ran for city council five times, 
ultimately winning a seat in 2006.
  He went on to serve as the councilman for District One for 11 years 
before having to step down earlier this year due to declining health. 
Today's Waco is a diverse and inclusive city because of his community 
service.
  Wilbert was also a devoted and loving husband to his late wife of 50 
years, Annie Pearl Austin, who passed away from breast cancer in 2012. 
Annie was supportive of her husband's efforts to help Waco and would 
often tell her children: ``No matter what or why he's out in the 
public, always love your dad and support him.'' They were blessed with 
5 children, and they were the grandparents to 10 grandchildren.
  During the last years of his life, Wilbert fought a battle with 
cancer that he ultimately lost. Throughout his battle, he never lost 
sight of where he was going. In a farewell address at his retirement 
party, Wilbert stated: ``I'm all packed up. When you hear of my 
passing, don't grieve for me. I'm just another soldier going home to be 
with the Lord.''
  Mr. Speaker, Wilbert Austin worked tirelessly to better our central 
Texas community and did so by serving his congregation, his community, 
reducing crime, and serving in elected office.
  He is loved by our community and certainly left an enduring 
impression on the greater Waco area. He will forever be remembered as a 
community leader, pastor, civil rights activist, servant, husband, 
father, grandfather, and friend.
  My wife, Gina, and I offer our deepest and heartfelt condolences to 
the Austin family. We also lift up the family and friends of Wilbert in 
our prayers.
  I have requested that a United States flag be flown over the United 
States Capitol to honor the life and legacy of Reverend Wilbert Austin.
  As I close today, I urge all Americans to continue praying for our 
country during these difficult times, for our military men and women 
who protect us from external threats, and for our first responders who 
protect us here at home.


                      Honoring General Joe Hanover

  Mr. FLORES. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor General Joe Hanover of 
Woodway, Texas, who passed away on May 22, 2017.
  Joe was born in McGregor, Texas, on February 10, 1918. He grew up in 
a farming community and attended grade school in Wheelock before 
graduating from Franklin High School in 1938.
  Wheelock was a special place to Joe because it is where he met the 
love of his life, Lucille, in the first grade.
  During his high school years in Franklin, Joe became interested in 
engineering, an interest that would guide much of the rest of his life. 
Upon graduation from high school, Joe went to Texas A&M University in 
College Station, where he would go on to earn a bachelor of civil 
engineering degree in 1940. In 1941, he married Lucille and started his 
engineering career by working for the Texas Highway Department in 
Hearne.
  World War II interrupted Joe's early career and family life, as he 
was called

[[Page H5368]]

into Active Duty in 1941. He was commissioned into the U.S. Army 10 
months prior to Pearl Harbor and still carried his original orders to 
report to Camp Wallace, Texas, until the day he passed away.
  During his service in World War II, George served in the European 
theater, notably in Belgium and France. He served in the 54th Coastal 
Artillery, a division that had 3,000 African-American soldiers in it.

  At the conclusion of the war, Joe was given command of a German 
prisoner of war camp in Marseilles, France. In an interview with the 
local newspaper, Joe was quoted as saying: ``I started as a commander 
of Black soldiers, fighting against the world's greatest racist, Adolph 
Hitler, and finished as the commander of a prison holding German 
soldiers who had tried to carry out Hitler's plans.''
  Joe's enlistment lasted 5 years, and he was given orders to go home 
in February 1946. He also joined the Army Reserve, from which he 
retired in 1971 with the rank of brigadier general. When he returned to 
the United States, he went back to work for the Texas Highway 
Department, embarking on a career that would last for more than 35 
years.
  Joe worked on numerous projects throughout the State and is best 
known in College Station for overseeing the completion of the 
University Drive overpass. On the 50-year anniversary of the opening of 
that structure, the City of College Station declared March 21 of each 
year going forward to be Joe Hanover Day.
  Texas A&M played a large role in Joe's life, and he was known for his 
great love of the university. He regularly attended Fightin' Texas 
Aggie sporting events, especially baseball and football games. When 
recounting the best days of his life, Joe would routinely tell you that 
the day he married Lucille and the day he was baptized were the two 
greatest days of his life.
  Mr. Speaker, Joe Hanover fought in service of our country and worked 
tirelessly to better the Bryan-College Station area. He is loved by our 
community and certainly left an enduring impression on the Brazos 
Valley. He will be forever remembered as a hero, community leader, 
husband, and friend.
  My wife, Gina, and I offer our deepest and heartfelt condolences to 
the Hanover family. We also lift up the family and friends of Joe 
Hanover in our prayers.
  I requested that a United States flag be flown over the Capitol to 
honor the life and legacy of General Joe Hanover.
  As I close today, I urge all Americans to continue praying for our 
country during these difficult times, for our military men and women 
who protect us from external threats, and for our first responders who 
protect us here at home.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



