

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 120 (Monday, July 17, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 120 (Monday, July 17, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4015-S4016]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                           EXECUTIVE SESSION

                                 ______
                                 

                           EXECUTIVE CALENDAR

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I move to proceed to executive session 
to consider Calendar No. 100, David Bernhardt.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The question is on agreeing to the motion.
  The motion was agreed to.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will report the nomination.
  The bill clerk read the nomination of David Bernhardt, of Virginia, 
to be Deputy Secretary of the Interior.


                             Cloture Motion

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I send a cloture motion to the desk.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The cloture motion having been presented under 
rule XXII, the Chair directs the clerk to read the motion.
  The bill clerk read as follows:

                             Cloture Motion

       We, the undersigned Senators, in accordance with the 
     provisions of rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
     do hereby

[[Page S4016]]

     move to bring to a close debate on the nomination of David 
     Bernhardt, of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of the 
     Interior.
         Mitch McConnell, Roger F. Wicker, John Thune, Tim Scott, 
           John Hoeven, Pat Roberts, Orrin G. Hatch, Tom Cotton, 
           John Barrasso, Thom Tillis, Michael B. Enzi, John 
           Boozman, James M. Inhofe, John Cornyn, James Lankford, 
           Mike Rounds, Cory Gardner.

  Mr. McCONNELL. I ask unanimous consent that the mandatory quorum 
calls with respect to the cloture motions be waived.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
  Mr. McCONNELL. I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.


                     Nomination of Patrick Shanahan

  Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise today in support of the nomination 
of Mr. Patrick Shanahan to be Deputy Secretary of Defense.
  The Department of Defense is going through historic changes in its 
organizational structure. These much needed changes are thanks to the 
chairman of the Armed Services Committee and his unwavering commitment 
to strengthening our Nation's security and ensuring that American 
taxpayers get the best return on their investment. We should all 
applaud the chairman for his efforts.
  But even as we make these reforms, we should also heed the lessons of 
the past. History shows us that the Department of Defense runs best 
under a Secretary who is a strong policy leader and a Deputy Secretary 
who is a dynamic business manager. The most obvious example of this 
preferred structure was when David Packard, the former CEO of the 
Hewlett-Packard corporation, was confirmed as Deputy Secretary of 
Defense. Thanks to Deputy Secretary Packard's considerable business 
acumen, his term in office is still regarded as the model of effective 
management at the Department of Defense.
  That leads us to today and our once-in-a-generation opportunity to 
replicate this efficiency and success at the Department of Defense. The 
pieces are now in place. Chairman McCain has provided the statutory 
catalyst, and I am sorry he has had some difficulty healthwise over the 
last few days. We can't wait to get him back. Secretary Mattis is a 
brilliant thinker and a master strategist who is providing the critical 
leadership we need during this period of uncertainty, and today he is 
seeking to replicate the Packard model by choosing as his Deputy a man 
of proven business and management skill.
  I understand that things could have gone a bit better during Mr. 
Shanahan's confirmation hearing, but I believe we all should remember 
that Mr. Shanahan has not been nominated for a position in public 
affairs--far from it. He has been nominated to be a strong manager who 
can increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the Department of 
Defense. In this role, I believe Mr. Shanahan will excel. I think 
everybody who knows him believes that.
  Currently, Mr. Shanahan is a senior vice president at the Boeing 
corporation, where he has been responsible for designing and producing 
some of the world's most complex machines. For example, when the Boeing 
Company's latest aircraft, the 787, was experiencing developmental 
difficulties, Mr. Shanahan was one of the key leaders tasked to solve 
these issues, earning himself the nickname ``Mr. Fix-it.''
  As further evidence of his leadership, I was particularly impressed 
with one of Mr. Shanahan's written answers to the Armed Services 
Committee's questions. He wrote:

       In my three decades of experience, I have developed and 
     practiced a formula to create change at scale in large, 
     complex organizations. I believe leadership is essential to 
     changing the status-quo--setting a compelling vision, 
     establishing ambitious goals and realistic intermediate 
     objectives, and converting strategy into action.

  Is that not exactly the type of person we want to be managing and 
reforming the Department of Defense? I personally think it is.
  Finally, I believe Mr. Shanahan's most important credential is that 
he is Secretary Mattis's choice to be the Deputy Secretary of Defense. 
I firmly believe Secretary Mattis will be remembered as one of our 
Nation's premier national security leaders. The Secretary does not fool 
around. He demands the best in himself and those around him. If 
Secretary Mattis wants Mr. Shanahan, then I believe the Senate should 
speed his confirmation so the good work can continue.
  If confirmed, I look forward to working with Mr. Shanahan, especially 
to ensure that the Department of Defense maintains our current 
statutory requirements regarding our defense logistics capabilities. I 
strongly believe Mr. Shanahan will play a critical role in leading the 
Department of Defense to a new era of effectiveness and efficiency.

  I yield the floor.
  I suggest the absence of a quorum.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
  The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
  Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded.
  The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Moran). Without objection, it is so 
ordered.

                          ____________________



