

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 127 (Thursday, July 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 127 (Thursday, July 27, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H6472-H6473]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                  THE BILL IMPORTANT TO ALL AMERICANS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, as we prepare the next 
farm bill, I rise today to speak about the impact that agriculture has 
on the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, our farmers, our economy, and our 
communities.
  Agriculture is the number one industry in the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania. We proudly boast 58,200 farms, totaling more than 7.7 
million acres of farmland. These farms contribute to a total economic 
impact of $45 billion from production, food processing, marketing, 
transportation, and manufacturing.
  Mr. Speaker, the farm bill affects everyone in Pennsylvania in 
various ways, just as it does families throughout the United States of 
America.
  It provides a safety net for farmers and ranchers during difficult 
times. It supports infrastructure and economic development in rural 
communities. It incentivizes good conservation practices to protect our 
farmland and our environment. It helps provide access to nutritious, 
quality food for the least fortunate among us, as well as breakfasts 
and lunches for our schoolchildren.
  The farm bill's effects can be felt beyond the ag industry. In 2015, 
the USDA rated the market value of all agricultural production in 
Pennsylvania at $8.7 billion, and agricultural exports contributed $2 
billion to the State economy.
  The strengthening impact that agriculture has on the Pennsylvania 
economy is significant and undeniable, yet it is only one example of 
agriculture's vast influence on the lives of everyone in the 
Commonwealth. Agriculture employs our residents, provides better health 
for our communities, and promotes agricultural exports.
  Agriculture touches the lives of millions of Americans, and not just 
those who work as farmers or ranchers.
  Pennsylvania's farmers look to the farm bill to protect their 
livelihood from weather disasters, to provide them a safety net when 
times are hard, and to ensure their ability to support their families 
and their communities.

[[Page H6473]]

  Over 6 years, the USDA has invested more than $1.4 billion in 
Pennsylvania for programs that promote new markets for farm and ranch 
products. These programs provide revenue and price loss payments to 
eligible producers.
  This legislation ensures that eligible acres are afforded disaster 
assistance in light of natural disasters and droughts, providing our 
farmers with a safeguard against the unpredictable elements of weather.
  Beyond supporting our farmers, the farm bill fortifies Pennsylvania's 
infrastructure. The bill provides funding for the expansion of 
telecommunications, the improvement of water and wastewater 
infrastructure, and the construction of community facilities like fire 
stations, hospitals, and libraries.
  It promotes growth in the community, the health of our children, and 
the well-being of Pennsylvania families. In 2016, more than 65 million 
breakfasts were served to more than 386,000 children in the School 
Breakfast Program. Last year, the State served more than 173 million 
lunches to 1 million students who participate in the program.
  Programs such as WIC, the Women, Infants, and Children program; and 
SNAP, the Supplemental Food and Nutrition Program, help people in need 
put food on their tables. The farm bill truly impacts the lives of so 
many.
  Mr. Speaker, as vice chairman of the Agriculture Committee and 
chairman of the Nutrition Subcommittee, I look forward to producing a 
strong farm bill that will promote sound policies for agriculture in 
Pennsylvania and throughout the country.

                          ____________________



