

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3360]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      TRIBUTE TO DR. JAMES JACOBS

 Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize Dr. James 
Jacobs on the occasion of his retirement as president of Macomb 
Community College. Dr. Jacobs has worked at Macomb Community College 
for nearly 50 years and was named president in 2008. He previously 
taught social science, political science, economics, and served as 
director for the Center for Workforce Development and Policy at the 
college. Under his leadership, Macomb Community College has grown to be 
one of the Nation's leading community colleges, providing an education 
to nearly 48,000 students a year. I appreciate the opportunity to 
recognize Dr. Jacobs' success as an education leader, as well as the 
contributions he has made to his community.
  Dr. Jacobs has long been at the heart of Macomb Community College, an 
educational institution founded in 1954. The college has been growing 
ever since. With three campuses, the Lorenzo Cultural Center, and the 
Michigan Technical Education Center, Macomb Community College has grown 
into one of the leading community colleges in the Nation. It ranks in 
the top 2 percent for number of associate degrees awarded by community 
colleges and is the largest grantor of associate degrees in Michigan.
  Under Dr. Jacobs, the education platform and course offerings have 
flourished. Today Macomb Community College offers precollegiate and 
graduate degrees, workforce training, and professional education. One 
such program that has prospered is the Macomb University Center. The 
University Center partners with other colleges and universities 
throughout the State of Michigan to offer students the opportunity to 
earn bachelors, masters, and doctoral degrees in over 80 fields. Thanks 
to Dr. Jacobs, the university center has become a national model for 
educational partnerships.
  Dr. Jacobs has grown Macomb Community College around a vision and 
mission that put the student at the forefront. With a focus on student 
success, efficiency and effectiveness, and community engagement, Macomb 
Community College has dedicated itself to provide learning 
opportunities and support services that enable students to achieve 
their educational goals.
  Dr. Jacobs is also leader in Macomb and the region, both on and off 
campus. He is widely known for delivering the Macomb County Economic 
Forecast annually for the last 29 years. He also serves on numerous 
boards, including the Center for Automotive Research, Metropolitan 
Affairs Council, and the Detroit Institute of Arts.
  I would like to congratulate Dr. Jacobs on his retirement as 
president of Macomb Community College and thank him for his decades of 
service to his community. It is certainly my hope that in retirement he 
will continue this type of work because we need his expertise and 
knowledge.

                          ____________________



