

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 116 (Tuesday, July 11, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5404-H5405]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




 INTERAGENCY TRANSFER OF LAND ALONG GEORGE WASHINGTON MEMORIAL PARKWAY

  Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 1397) to authorize, direct, facilitate, and expedite the 
transfer of administrative jurisdiction of certain Federal land, and 
for other purposes.
  The Clerk read the title of the bill.
  The text of the bill is as follows:

                               H.R. 1397

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. INTERAGENCY TRANSFER OF LAND ALONG GEORGE 
                   WASHINGTON MEMORIAL PARKWAY.

       (a) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``George 
     Washington Memorial Parkway--Claude Moore Farm Proposed 
     Boundary Adjustment'', numbered 850_130815, and dated 
     February 2016.
       (2) Research center.--The term ``Research Center'' means 
     the Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center of the Federal 
     Highway Administration.
       (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
     of the Interior.
       (b) Administrative Jurisdiction Transfer.--
       (1) Transfer of jurisdiction.--
       (A) George washington memorial parkway land.--
     Administrative jurisdiction over the approximately 0.342 
     acres of Federal land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary 
     within the boundary of the George Washington Memorial 
     Parkway, as generally depicted as ``B'' on the Map, is 
     transferred from the Secretary to the Secretary of 
     Transportation.
       (B) Research center land.--Administration jurisdiction over 
     the approximately 0.479 acres of Federal land within the 
     boundary of the Research Center land under the jurisdiction 
     of the Secretary of Transportation adjacent to the boundary 
     of the George Washington Memorial Parkway, as generally 
     depicted as ``A'' on the Map, is transferred from the 
     Secretary of Transportation to the Secretary.
       (2) Use restriction.--The Secretary shall restrict the use 
     of 0.139 acres of Federal land within the boundary of the 
     George Washington Memorial Parkway immediately adjacent to 
     part of the perimeter fence of the Research Center, generally 
     depicted as ``C'' on the Map, by prohibiting the storage, 
     construction, or installation of any item that may interfere 
     with the access of the Research Center to the restricted land 
     for security and maintenance purposes.
       (3) Reimbursement or consideration.--The transfers of 
     administrative jurisdiction under this subsection shall not 
     be subject to reimbursement or consideration.
       (4) Compliance with agreement.--
       (A) Agreement.--The National Park Service and the Federal 
     Highway Administration shall comply with all terms and 
     conditions of the agreement entered into by the parties on 
     September 11, 2002, regarding the transfer of administrative 
     jurisdiction, management, and maintenance of the land 
     described in the agreement.
       (B) Access to restricted land.--Subject to the terms of the 
     agreement described in subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall 
     allow the Research Center--
       (i) to access the Federal land described in paragraph 
     (1)(B) for purposes of transportation to and from the 
     Research Center; and
       (ii) to access the Federal land described in paragraphs 
     (1)(B) and (2) for purposes of maintenance in accordance with 
     National Park Service standards, including grass mowing, weed 
     control, tree maintenance, fence maintenance, and maintenance 
     of the visual appearance of the Federal land.
       (c) Management of Transferred Land.--
       (1) Interior land.--The Federal land transferred to the 
     Secretary under subsection (b)(1)(B) shall be--
       (A) included in the boundary of the George Washington 
     Memorial Parkway; and
       (B) administered by the Secretary as part of the George 
     Washington Memorial Parkway, subject to applicable laws 
     (including regulations).
       (2) Transportation land.--The Federal land transferred to 
     the Secretary of Transportation under subsection (b)(1)(A) 
     shall be--
       (A) included in the boundary of the Research Center land; 
     and
       (B) removed from the boundary of the George Washington 
     Memorial Parkway.
       (3) Restricted-use land.--The Federal land that the 
     Secretary has designated for restricted use under subsection 
     (b)(2) shall be maintained by the Research Center.
       (d) Map on File.--The Map shall be available for public 
     inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park 
     Service.

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. LaHood) and the gentleman from California (Mr. Panetta) 
each will control 20 minutes.
  The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Illinois.

                              {time}  1645


                             General Leave

  Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and include 
extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the 
gentleman from Illinois?
  There was no objection.
  Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1397, offered by the gentlewoman from Virginia 
(Mrs. Comstock), would authorize a small land exchange between the 
Department of the Interior and the Department of Transportation.
  Specifically, the bill transfers administrative jurisdiction over 
approximately a third of an acre of Federal land within the boundary of 
the George Washington Memorial Parkway of the National Park Service to 
the Department of Transportation, and transfers from the Department of 
Transportation approximately a half an acre of Federal land within the 
boundary of the Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center of the Federal 
Highway Administration.
  The transfer centers on Colonial Farm Road, which provides public 
access to Claude Moore Colonial Farm and also serves as an entrance 
road to the Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center and as a secondary 
entrance to the Central Intelligence Agency. The configuration of the 
property lines between the farm and the research center requires farm 
staff to

[[Page H5405]]

travel across research center property to access their facilities.
  The three Federal agencies have discussed concerns over crossing 
property lines, the need to have uninterrupted access to the 
properties, and the need to improve security near perimeter fencing of 
the research center. The agencies have identified properties suitable 
for exchange on their boundaries which will provide public access to 
the farm while providing the means to improve security outside the 
fencing of the research center and the Central Intelligence Agency. 
Though the immediate security concerns have previously been addressed 
through a temporary agreement, legislation is needed to codify the land 
exchange.
  I include in the Record an exchange of letters to Chairman Bill 
Shuster of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and the 
responses. We thank them for agreeing to help expedite consideration of 
this bill today.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the measure, and I reserve the 
balance of my time.
                                         House of Representatives,


                               Committee on Natural Resources,

                                     Washington, DC, July 5, 2017.
     Hon. Bill Shuster,
     Chairman, Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, 
         Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: On June 27, 2017, the Committee on 
     Natural Resources ordered favorably reported without 
     amendment H.R. 1397, to authorize, direct, facilitate, and 
     expedite the transfer of administrative jurisdiction of 
     certain Federal land. The bill was referred primarily to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources, with an additional referral 
     to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
       I ask that you allow the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure to be discharged from further consideration of 
     the bill so that it may be scheduled by the Majority Leader. 
     This discharge in no way affects your jurisdiction over the 
     subject matter of the bill, and it will not serve as 
     precedent for future referrals. In addition, should a 
     conference on the bill be necessary, I would support your 
     request to have the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure represented on the conference committee. 
     Finally, I would be pleased to include this letter and any 
     response in the bill report filed by the Committee on Natural 
     Resources to memorialize our understanding, as well as in the 
     Congressional Record.
       Thank you for your consideration of my request and for the 
     extraordinary cooperation shown by you and your staff over 
     matters of shared jurisdiction. I look forward to further 
     opportunities to work with you this Congress.
           Sincerely,
                                                       Rob Bishop,
     Chairman.
                                  ____

         House of Representatives, Committee on Transportation and 
           Infrastructure,
                                     Washington, DC, July 5, 2017.
     Hon. Rob Bishop,
     Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources,
     Washington, DC.
       Dear Chairman Bishop: Thank you for your letter concerning 
     H.R. 1397, to authorize, direct, facilitate, and expedite the 
     transfer of administrative jurisdiction of certain Federal 
     land. As noted, the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure received an additional referral on this 
     legislation.
       In order to expedite floor consideration of H.R. 1397, the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure agrees to 
     forgo action on this bill. However, as you noted, this is 
     conditional on our mutual understanding that forgoing 
     consideration of the bill would not prejudice the Committee 
     with respect to the appointment of conferees or to any future 
     jurisdictional claim over the subject matters contained in 
     the bill or similar legislation that fall within the 
     Committee's Rule X jurisdiction. Should a conference on the 
     bill be necessary, I appreciate your agreement to support my 
     request to have the Committee represented on the conference 
     committee.
       Thank you for your cooperation on this matter and for 
     agreeing to place a copy of this letter and your response 
     acknowledging our jurisdictional interest into the bill 
     report and the Congressional Record during consideration of 
     the measure on the House floor.
           Sincerely,
                                                     Bill Shuster,
                                                         Chairman.

  Mr. PANETTA. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
  Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1397 authorizes the National Park Service and the 
Federal Highway Administration to comply with a longstanding agreement 
regarding two parcels of land near Claude Moore Colonial Farm in 
McLean, Virginia.
  Specifically, the bill transfers a small parcel within the boundary 
of the George Washington Memorial Parkway from the Department of the 
Interior to the Department of Transportation. The bill also transfers a 
half acre within the Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center from the 
Department of Transportation to the Department of the Interior.
  Simply put, this bill permits a one-time land transfer that was 
agreed to 15 years ago. Ultimately, this will improve management 
efficiency and save taxpayer money.
  The bill is noncontroversial and has been a longstanding legislative 
priority of the National Park Service. I commend the gentlewoman from 
Virginia (Mrs. Comstock) for her bipartisanship, and I urge my 
colleagues to support its adoption.
  Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
  Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as she may consume to the 
gentlewoman from Virginia (Mrs. Comstock).
  Mrs. COMSTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of my bill, H.R. 1397, 
which would authorize this Federal land exchange between the National 
Park Service and the Federal Highway Administration.
  As has been discussed, at issue is the jurisdiction of an access road 
adjacent to the Claude Moore Colonial Farm, a privately funded living 
history museum which is part of the National Park Service and in my 
district in McLean, Virginia.
  Claude Moore Farm is a wonderful way to experience what life was like 
on a small family farm for the average family in the late 1700s, not 
the plantations that we often see preserved, but a very small, average 
family farm.
  Claude Moore Farm is tucked in right next to the CIA, as has been 
mentioned, and the jurisdiction of this particular access road off of 
George Washington Memorial Parkway has not been clear and has resulted 
in confusion and unnecessary security concerns.
  Over the years, general use of this access road has set off security 
alarms at Langley. And this confusion has not only been difficult for 
security personnel; it has also cost taxpayer resources.
  On September 11, 2002, the National Park Service and the Federal 
Highway Administration entered into an agreement under which the 
transfer of administrative jurisdiction, management, and maintenance of 
the lands in question were agreed upon. Since then, the two parties 
have been abiding by these rules.
  What this agreement does now is make this permanent in a legislative 
fix. It is a commonsense, bipartisan bill. We worked on this with 
Senator Warner also. Last year he was able to get it attached to the 
energy package, but that did not pass, so we now need this to move 
forward.
  Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this straightforward, 
noncontroversial bill.
  Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Illinois for yielding.
  Mr. PANETTA. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I yield 
back the balance of my time.
  Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the 
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. LaHood) that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 1397.
  The question was taken.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds 
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
  Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
  The yeas and nays were ordered.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further 
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.

                          ____________________



