

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 72 (Thursday, April 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2612-S2613]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       REMEMBERING CLYDE SEE, JR.

 Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, I rise today to honor Clyde See, 
Jr., a noble veteran, a dedicated community leader, and a beloved 
member of my home State of West Virginia.
  Clyde and I were friends for many years, and I witnessed his 
unwavering dedication to public service, firsthand.
  Clyde was born in Hardy County and continued to give back to his 
community throughout his life. He was a high school dropout, who 
received his GED after serving in the U.S. Army. With use of his G.I. 
Bill, Clyde earned his undergraduate degree from West Virginia 
University and then attended WVU's Law School. He served as an attorney 
in Hardy County for 47 years.
  Clyde always took great pride in helping others achieve their goals. 
From 1975 through 1984, he served in the West Virginia House of 
Delegates, with 6 years as speaker of the house. Among his many 
achievements and roles in leadership, he served as president of the 
board of directors of the Mutual Protective Insurance Association for 
the 20 years, serving on its board for more than 40 years.
  He ran unsuccessfully for Governor in 1984 and 1988, but never gave 
up the opportunity to give back to the State he loved.
  He was a member of the Moorefield Volunteer Fire Company and fought

[[Page S2613]]

fires years ago because he believed so deeply in public service. He 
knew that, if you can count your blessings, you can share your 
blessings, and he did indeed share them with the Moorefield region and 
with our entire State.
  Clyde was especially passionate about the passage of Hardy County 
School Bonds that would enable new schools to be built in the county. 
He worked tirelessly for this cause and was so very proud to see the 
passage of the bond for the new Moorefield High School. Clyde knew that 
our students are the future of our State and Nation and that we must do 
everything in our power to equip them with the tools they need for 
success. He had great compassion for students who needed support and 
was very proactive in making sure they were prepared for the future.
  One of Clyde's favorite projects was Brighton Park, located just 
outside of Moorefield. It is a project that came to fruition, thanks to 
Clyde's design, development, and funding efforts, as well as with his 
determination to create something special for the entire region to 
enjoy. Clyde often enjoyed walking through this beautiful park, and now 
it remains in our hearts as a place to cherish his memory.
  Clyde had the most wonderful sense of humor and such a quick wit. He 
was also one of the most brilliant and eloquent speakers I have ever 
heard. It is my hope that his friends and family have found comfort in 
one another and in the support of our entire home State for their loss.
  What is most important is that he lived a full life, surrounded by 
his loved ones. Clyde was a true West Virginian, always willing to help 
a neighbor in need. I extend my condolences to his loving companion, 
Marion Marshall, his children Josh, Lucas, Jenny, and Amy and their 
families, and to his brother Jack. Again, I am honored to recognize 
Clyde's memory, as well as the unwavering love he had for his family, 
friends, and our home State.

                          ____________________



