

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4316-H4317]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       A TRULY OUTSTANDING AGENT

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Minnesota (Mr. Emmer) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Stearns County 
Corrections Agent Jeremy Gallagher. Mr. Gallagher recently received the 
Outstanding Agent Award from the Minnesota Association of Community 
Corrections Act Counties. Jeremy received this award because of his 
work with victims of domestic violence.
  Jeremy has served as a corrections agent in Stearns County for 11 
years, 4 of which have been spent as an agent in the county's Domestic 
Violence Court.
  Being a corrections agent in domestic violence cases can be 
overwhelming, but not for Jeremy. He has embraced his role to aid and 
protect Minnesota families. Through his assignment, he has even 
discovered a passion for helping children overcome the trauma that 
domestic violence can bring.
  Jeremy Gallagher has gone above and beyond his role as a corrections 
agent. He is so deserving of this award, and he is the first Stearns 
County agent to receive it.
  I applaud Jeremy for his dedication to Minnesota families, and 
especially for his dedication to our children.


                          A Victorious Weekend

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate an outstanding 
college student in my district.
  Megan Hedstrom is currently in her senior year at St. Cloud State 
University. Megan has excelled in college as a student and as an 
athlete. She has a bright future.
  Recently, Megan won a Crystal Pillar Award from the Upper Midwest 
Emmy Chapter of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences. 
She received the award for a piece called ``True Grit'' that Megan 
wrote, edited, and produced for the university's television station.
  As if her Crystal Pillar Award was not enough, Megan also pitched a 
perfect game this spring, leading the St. Cloud Husky softball team to 
victory over the University of Mary.
  Megan excels in the classroom as well. Just this week she was named 
to the Northern Sun Intercollegiate Spring All-Academic team, which 
requires a minimum 3.2 GPA or higher.
  Megan's academic success, her success on the softball field, and her 
chosen career path, deserve recognition and celebration.
  Congratulations, Megan. We are proud to have students like you at St. 
Cloud State University.


                           A Normandy Scholar

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate Evan DuFresne and 
his teacher, Christopher Stewart, of the North Lakes Academy Charter 
School. Evan has recently been named a Normandy Scholar, and with this, 
Evan and Mr. Stewart have been chosen to attend the Normandy: Sacrifice

[[Page H4317]]

for Freedom Albert H. Small Student and Teacher Institute. They will 
participate in this prominent program alongside 14 other student and 
teacher teams from across the United States.
  After coming up shy in last year's application, Evan doubled down on 
his commitment to this project. He resigned from the Civil Air Patrol 
Cadet Program after 5 dedicated years and even chose to delay his plans 
to join the Army National Guard. Thankfully, Evan's perseverance and 
dedication appealed to this year's judges.
  The Normandy Scholar Program allows student to learn about World War 
II at an in-depth level by researching and telling the story of a 
fallen soldier from their hometown.

                              {time}  1015

  The program also gives them the chance to pay their respects to this 
hero at the Normandy American Cemetery in Normandy, France.
  Congratulations to both Evan and Mr. Stewart for being chosen to 
participate, and thank you for telling the story of an American hero 
from the Greatest Generation who paid the ultimate sacrifice. We look 
forward to hearing more about your educational journey in the months to 
come.


                         Stillwater's Last Man

  Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to stand in support of a local 
veteran who is now the last surviving member of his World War II 
veterans club.
  Jean L. DeCurtins became the last member of his club when his 
lifelong friend Robert Kunshier passed away. Both were among the 180 
men from the Stillwater area in Washington County, Minnesota, who 
joined the Minnesota National Guard's 34th Infantry right before World 
War II.
  After the attacks on Pearl Harbor shook the Nation, DeCurtins and the 
rest of his unit deployed to Europe where they helped defend this 
Nation and the world. Jean was injured twice during the war and bravely 
returned to fight each time after recovery.
  He returned to Stillwater, Minnesota, in 1944. Many of his friends 
did not return. The survivors in the area formed the A&D Last Man's 
Club, which was named after both companies the men belonged to during 
the war.
  Mr. Speaker, men like Jean DeCurtins, and those in the Last Man's 
Club, bravely fought during World War II. They did so unselfishly and 
without reservation. We will never forget the courage and sacrifice 
they displayed during our Nation's and the world's darkest hour, and 
the world will always be thankful for them.

                          ____________________



