

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 89 (Tuesday, May 23, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4502]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




         REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of committees were delivered to 
the Clerk for printing and reference to the proper calendar, as 
follows:

       Mr. ROE of Tennessee: Committee on Veterans' Affairs. H.R. 
     1461. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to submit an annual 
     report to Congress relating to the use of official time by 
     employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to limit the 
     instances in which official time may be granted for certain 
     purposes to employees of the Department, and for other 
     purposes; with an amendment (Rept. 115-146, Pt. 1). Referred 
     to the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the 
     Union.
       Mr. ROE of Tennessee: Committee on Veterans' Affairs. A 
     bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out 
     a pilot program to provide access to magnetic EEG/EKG-guided 
     resonance therapy to veterans (Rept. 115-147). Referred to 
     the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union.
       Mr. ROE of Tennessee: Committee on Veterans' Affairs. H.R. 
     1005. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     improve the provision of adult day health care services for 
     veterans (Rept. 115-148). Referred to the Committee of the 
     Whole House on the state of the Union.
       Mr. ROE of Tennessee: Committee on Veterans' Affairs. H.R. 
     467. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
     ensure that each medical facility of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs complies with requirements relating to 
     scheduling veterans for health care appointments, to improve 
     the uniform application of directives of the Department, and 
     for other purposes (Rept. 115-149, Pt. 1). Referred to the 
     Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union.
       Mr. ROE of Tennessee: Committee on Veterans' Affairs. H.R. 
     1848. A bill to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
     carry out a pilot program on the use of medical scribes in 
     Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers (Rept. 115-
     151). Referred to the Committee of the Whole House on the 
     state of the Union.
       Mr. BUCK: Committee on Rules. House Resolution 352. 
     Resolution providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 
     1973) to prevent the sexual abuse of minors and amateur 
     athletes by requiring the prompt reporting of sexual abuse to 
     law enforcement authorities, and for other purposes; 
     providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1761) to amend 
     title 18, United States Code, to criminalize the knowing 
     consent of the visual depiction, or live transmission, of a 
     minor engaged in sexually explicit conduct, and for other 
     purposes; and providing for proceedings during the period 
     from May 26, 2017, through June 5, 2017 (Rept. 115-152). 
     Referred to the House Calendar.


                         discharge of committee

  Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform discharged from further consideration. H.R. 467 
referred to the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union.
  Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the Committee on Ways and Means 
discharged from further consideration. H.R. 624 referred to the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union.
  Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform discharged from further consideration. H.R. 1461 
referred to the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union.

                          ____________________



