

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 110 (Tuesday, June 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 110 (Tuesday, June 27, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5184-H5185]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              65TH ANNIVERSARY OF LEVITTOWN, PENNSYLVANIA

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commemorate the 65th 
anniversary of my hometown, Levittown, Pennsylvania.
  On June 23, 1952, the first 20 families moved into Levittown, which 
is one of the first planned communities built in the U.S. With its 
partially framed housing, immature landscaping, and muddy streets, 
Levittown, in 1952, is a frontier outside of the city of Philadelphia.
  Levittown's first official family, the Doughertys, moved into their 
home on Stonybrook Drive and embraced the American Dream of 
homeownership. And as Mrs. Dougherty told reporters in Levittown, she 
described Levittown as country living with city conveniences.
  Between 1952 and 1958, Levitt & Sons built 17,311 single-family 
houses with lawns.

                              {time}  1015

  There were six models a family could choose from: the Levittowner, 
the Rancher, the Jubilee, the Pennsylvanian, the Colonial, and the 
Country Clubber. Levitt & Sons pushed the boundaries of housing 
construction by perfecting the homebuilding assembly line.
  Levittown remains a special place in Bucks County. Originally 
designed as a completed community, Levittown grew into the model middle 
class community. In fact, it became a popular place for hundreds of 
returning World War II veterans who wanted to start families of their 
own. Now Levittown is home to over 50,000 residents with schools, 
churches, parks, and businesses that foster a sense of community for 
families to live and work.
  Residents of Levittown have worked in our steel mills, built our 
infrastructure, and served in our military--all while raising their 
children.
  Mr. Speaker, I am proud to call Levittown my hometown, and I am 
grateful to represent this close-knit and hardworking community. 
Congratulations to all who have called Levittown home for the last 65 
years.
  Happy birthday, Levittown.


                Recognizing Network of Victim Assistance

  Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize the Network of 
Victim Assistance, NOVA, in Bucks County, Pennsylvania.
  NOVA seeks to support, counsel, and empower victims of sexual assault 
and abuse in our region through advocacy and community education. By 
utilizing individual and group counseling, victims of sexual assault 
and abuse can regain control of their lives, and through education 
programs, children and communities learn to be advocates for victims of 
abuse, as well as prevention and personal safety.
  Additionally, NOVA Bucks County maintains a 24-hour hotline to be 
able to support all sexual assault victims to get the assistance that 
they need, as well as assistance in court and safety programs for those 
with disabilities. I was pleased to tour their facility earlier this 
year. I am thankful for the work of Penny Ettinger, Kathy Bennett, 
Steve Doerner, Keith Kirkner,

[[Page H5185]]

Mandy Mundy, Bill Hoblin, and so many of the NOVA staff and volunteers 
serving Bucks County, including generous volunteers such as Tina 
Greenwood.
  Through its programs and projects, NOVA empowers victims of sexual 
assault and abuse, providing them with the resources and security they 
need to live in spaces free from violence. I am proud to stand with 
them in their mission to stand with victims in the fight to end sexual 
assault.

                          ____________________



