

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 117 (Wednesday, July 12, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 117 (Wednesday, July 12, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5758-H5759]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania (for himself, 
             Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Engel, 
             Ms. Rosen, Mr. Evans, and Ms. Clarke of New York):
       H.R. 3191. A bill to prohibit the use of Federal funds to 
     establish, support, or otherwise promote a joint 
     cybersecurity initiative with Russia, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself and Mrs. Napolitano):
       H.R. 3192. A bill to amend title XXI of the Social Security 
     Act to ensure access to mental health services for children 
     under the Children's Health Insurance Program, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York:
       H.R. 3193. A bill to amend the Central Intelligence Agency 
     Act of 1949 to improve death gratuities paid to the survivors 
     of certain deceased officers and employees of the Central 
     Intelligence Agency; to the Committee on Intelligence 
     (Permanent Select).
           By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York:
       H.R. 3194. A bill to provide for an extension of the 
     authority of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide for 
     the conduct of medical disability examinations by contract 
     physicians; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York (for himself 
             and Ms. Stefanik):
       H.R. 3195. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to make available 
     for purchase memorial headstones and markers for certain 
     deceased members of the reserve components; to the Committee 
     on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York:
       H.R. 3196. A bill to direct the Secretary of Defense to 
     review and update Department of Defense regulations to ensure 
     such regulations comply with Federal consumer protection law 
     with respect to the collection of debt; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mr. BRAT (for himself, Ms. Titus, Mr. Mast, Mr. Ted 
             Lieu of California, Mr. Donovan, and Mr. Brendan F. 
             Boyle of Pennsylvania):
       H.R. 3197. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     prohibit the Secretary of Veterans Affairs from conducting 
     medical research causing significant pain or distress to 
     dogs; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. KNIGHT (for himself, Mr. Smith of Texas, and Mr. 
             Babin):
       H.R. 3198. A bill to provide for Federal Aviation 
     Administration research and development, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
     the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.
           By Mr. DeSAULNIER (for himself, Mr. Hoyer, Mr. Huffman, 
             Mr. Langevin, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. Pallone, 
             Mr. Khanna, and Mr. Scott of Virginia):
       H.R. 3199. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to improve accessibility to, and completion of, postsecondary 
     education for students, including students with disabilities, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. DeSANTIS (for himself, Mr. LaHood, Mr. Posey, 
             Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Issa, Mr. Poliquin, and Mr. 
             Rothfus):
       H.R. 3200. A bill to require the disclosure of pension 
     records under the Freedom of Information Act, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
     Reform.
           By Mr. BACON:
       H.R. 3201. A bill to amend and enhance certain maritime 
     programs of the Department of Transportation, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
       H.R. 3202. A bill to require the Secretary of Homeland 
     Security to submit a report on cyber vulnerability 
     disclosures, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security.
           By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Ms. Pelosi, and Mr. Hoyer):
       H.R. 3203. A bill to provide congressional review and to 
     counter Iranian and Russian governments' aggression; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Intelligence (Permanent Select), Armed 
     Services, the Judiciary, Oversight and Government Reform, 
     Financial Services, Rules, and Ways and Means, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. AGUILAR:
       H.R. 3204. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide a credit against tax for job training 
     expenses of employers; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. DELANEY (for himself, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Meeks, Mr. 
             Jones, Mr. Lowenthal, and Mr. Cartwright):
       H.R. 3205. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for a five-year extension of the Veterans' Advisory 
     Committee on Education; to the Committee on Veterans' 
     Affairs.
           By Mrs. DINGELL:
       H.R. 3206. A bill to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to 
     require quarterly reporting, improvement of consumer 
     confidence reports, establishment of a nation consumer 
     confidence report, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. DINGELL (for herself and Mr. Donovan):
       H.R. 3207. A bill to protect victims of stalking from gun 
     violence; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DUFFY:
       H.R. 3208. A bill to amend the Agricultural Act of 2014 to 
     authorize road repair under good neighbor agreements; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER (for herself and Ms. Tsongas):
       H.R. 3209. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     improve protections for a member of the Armed Forces who is a 
     survivor of a sex-related offense during military service 
     regarding the separation, or the characterization of any 
     separation, of the member from the Armed Forces, to make 
     additional changes to the authorities and procedures of 
     boards for the correction of military records and discharge 
     review boards, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Armed Services.
           By Mr. KNIGHT (for himself and Mr. Connolly):
       H.R. 3210. A bill to require the Director of the National 
     Background Investigations Bureau to submit a report on the 
     backlog of personnel security clearance investigations, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and 
     Government Reform.
           By Mr. BEN RAY LUJAN of New Mexico:
       H.R. 3211. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     enhance protections of Native American tangible cultural 
     heritage, and for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on Natural 
     Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. McSALLY (for herself, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Cook, 
             Mr. Gosar, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. King of Iowa, 
             Mr. Knight, and Mr. Rohrabacher):
       H.R. 3212. A bill to reauthorize the State Criminal Alien 
     Assistance Program, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 3213. A bill to direct the Joint Committee on the 
     Library to accept a statue depicting Pierre L'Enfant from the 
     District of Columbia and to provide for the permanent display 
     of the statue in the United States Capitol; to the Committee 
     on House Administration.
           By Mr. RICHMOND (for himself, Ms. Michelle Lujan 
             Grisham of New Mexico, Ms. Judy Chu of California, 
             Mr. Conyers, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Ms. Norton, Ms. 
             Maxine Waters of California, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, 
             Mr. Clyburn, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson 
             of Texas, Mr. Rush, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. 
             Thompson of Mississippi, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. 
             Cummings, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Meeks, 
             Ms. Lee, Mr. Clay, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. 
             Cleaver, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Ms. Clarke of New 
             York, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Carson 
             of Indiana, Ms. Fudge, Ms. Bass, Ms. Sewell of 
             Alabama, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. Payne, Mrs. 
             Beatty, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Veasey, Ms. Kelly of 
             Illinois, Mrs. Lawrence, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. 
             Evans, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Mr. Brown of Maryland, 
             Mrs. Demings, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mr. McEachin, 
             Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Kaptur, 
             Ms. Meng, Mr. Pallone, Ms. Hanabusa, Mr. Grijalva, 
             Ms. Barragan, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney 
             of New York, Mr. Beyer, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. 
             Jayapal, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Shea-Porter, 
             Mr. Polis, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Mr. Sarbanes, 
             Mr. Soto, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Nadler, and Mrs. Torres):
       H.R. 3214. A bill to nullify the effect of the recent 
     Executive order that establishes an ``election integrity'' 
     commission, which will be used and is designed to support 
     policies that will suppress the vote in minority and poor 
     communities across the United States; to the Committee on 
     House Administration.

[[Page H5759]]

  

           By Mr. SERRANO (for himself, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Engel, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. 
             Gonzalez of Texas, Mr. Nadler, Mr. Espaillat, Mr. 
             Crowley, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Evans, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. 
             Cohen, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. Jackson Lee, and 
             Ms. Meng):
       H.R. 3215. A bill to authorize appropriations for the 
     public housing Capital Fund for addressing urgent capital 
     needs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. GALLEGO:
       H.J. Res. 108. A joint resolution making continuing 
     appropriations for fiscal year 2018 during any period between 
     October 1, 2017, and December 14, 2017, for which 
     discretionary appropriations have lapsed, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Appropriations.
           By Mr. DEFAZIO (for himself and Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia):
       H. Res. 437. A resolution of inquiry requesting the 
     President to provide certain documents in the President's 
     possession; to the Committee on Transportation and 
     Infrastructure.
           By Mr. SHERMAN (for himself and Mr. Al Green of Texas):
       H. Res. 438. A resolution impeaching Donald John Trump, 
     President of the United States, for high crimes and 
     misdemeanors; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CROWLEY:
       H. Res. 439. A resolution electing a Member to a certain 
     standing committee of the House of Representatives; 
     considered and agreed to. considered and agreed to.
           By Mr. HIGGINS of New York (for himself and Ms. 
             Jayapal):
       H. Res. 441. A resolution amending the Rules of the House 
     of Representatives to prohibit the consideration of any bill 
     or joint resolution until a cost estimate prepared by the 
     Congressional Budget Office has been available to the public, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Rules.

                          ____________________



