

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 76 (Wednesday, May 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2716-S2717]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        TRIBUTE TO GARY RANSDELL

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, today I wish to celebrate the 
retirement of my friend, Dr. Gary A. Ransdell, who, since September 12, 
1997, has served as the ninth president of Western Kentucky University.
  During his nearly two decades leading WKU, Gary has overseen a 
complete transformation of the school. An alumnus of the school 
himself, graduating in 1973 with a bachelor of arts degree in mass 
communications and again in 1974 with a master of public service degree 
in public administration, Gary said that ``[s]erving my alma mater has 
been a dream come true.''
  Under Gary's leadership, the school has grown into a prominent 
university with an international presence. Since 1997, enrollment has 
increased from 14,500 to 21,000, with strong improvements in graduation 
numbers, the number of applicants, and student retention. WKU has 
attracted hundreds of millions of dollars in private donations, 
completing two major capital campaigns under Gary's guidance. Those 
funds have revitalized the campus and created state of the art 
buildings and classrooms.
  Students at WKU have a world of education within their reach. New 
undergraduate degree programs focusing on mechanical, electrical, and 
civil engineering and doctoral degree programs in education, nursing, 
physical therapy, and psychology promote research and prepare students 
for their careers. The university is also committed to transferring its 
technology into the Kentucky workplace to help develop the State's 
economy. WKU's regional campuses throughout Western Kentucky make 
education accessible to many Kentuckians for the first time. The 
creation of the Gatton Academy of Math and Science, which reached a 
milestone in 2014 when the school was ranked as the No. 1 high school 
in America for its 3rd year in a row by Newsweek, has helped Kentucky 
students blossom into scholars and future leaders.
  During Gary's time at WKU, the school successfully transitioned into 
Conference USA and, in the 2014-2015 school year, set a record with 
eight conference championships. The WKU

[[Page S2717]]

football program is nationally recognized and won two consecutive bowl 
games. The Hilltoppers--named because of the school's scenic location 
atop ``the Hill''--are strong student-athletes both on the field and in 
the classroom, leading Conference USA in academic performance.
  Gary is especially engaged in WKU's international outreach. He and 
his wife, Julie, herself a WKU alumna, have led students into new 
learning experience around the world in England, France, Italy, China, 
Ecuador, Iceland, Scandinavia, and Africa. The school is also home to 
Kentucky's first Confucius Institute and only Chinese language flagship 
program and has been recognized as a top producer of Fulbright 
scholars.
  Gary has been at the center of each of these significant 
accomplishments. The growth in campus infrastructure, academic 
prestige, and community and alumni engagement at WKU have benefited 
Kentucky students and are in large part due to Gary's work. With his 
nearly 20 years of service, he is currently the longest serving 
university president in Kentucky.
  I have enjoyed every opportunity to work with Gary over the years and 
support his vision for higher education in Kentucky. We have partnered 
together to secure Federal funding for worthwhile projects like WKU's 
mobile health unit and the agricultural research service Federal 
research lab. He is a dedicated public servant committed to student 
success. In addition to all of the work that Gary and I have 
collaborated on, I am proud to call him a friend. Along with the WKU 
community, I am sad to see Gary leave his alma mater at the end of this 
school year, but I am deeply grateful for his passion and leadership.
  After a brief sabbatical, Gary will continue working to connect 
students with an international education. Starting next year, Gary and 
Julie begin their next adventure, as he becomes the president and CEO 
of Semester at Sea, a global study abroad program that uses a ship as a 
traveling campus around the world. I wish him the best of luck as he 
continues his passion for higher education in this next chapter, and I 
wish him and his family congratulations on a remarkably successful 
career at Western Kentucky University.
  (At the request of Mr. Schumer, the following statement was ordered 
to be printed in the Record.)

                          ____________________



