

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 98 (Thursday, June 8, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4708-H4709]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      THANKING HOWARD P. MARGULEAS

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California (Mr. Ruiz) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor Howard Marguleas, a talented 
businessman, incredible father and friend, and blessing to those who 
knew him. He made a tremendous positive impact on so many lives, 
including my own. His list of achievements and contributions to our 
Nation is long.
  Sadly, he passed away June 1, 2017. His spirit of service and 
leadership will live for generations to come.
  As a business leader, he took the produce industry by storm as the 
principal founder of Sun World International. He brought many new 
products to American consumer markets, like the delicious new seedless 
watermelon, various new types of grapes, and the Hawaiian pineapple.

                              {time}  1030

  Sun World International became a powerhouse produce company under his 
watch, one of the largest in the Nation. His business leadership was 
well recognized.
  He served on the California State Board of Food and Agriculture as a 
key adviser to Governor Pat Brown on issues important to the many 
farmers, ranchers, and consumers in California. He was named as one of 
the most influential produce leaders of the past 100 years by the 
industry publication, The Packer.
  Mr. Marguleas was a genuinely good man. His incredible heart of gold 
was shown through his generosity as a philanthropist.
  He championed healthcare access and education, issues near and dear 
to my own heart. He was vice chair at the University of California at 
Riverside, and served as a trustee at the Eisenhower Medical Center for 
more than 15 years.
  He also helped found the Coachella Valley Boys and Girls Club, which 
has grown to five clubhouses serving thousands of children across the 
valley.
  This is just a small part of the incredible work he did as a 
philanthropist and community leader throughout his life.
  Mr. Marguleas was very special to me and my family in a very deeply 
personal way. He gave my father, Gilbert, the chance in life that 
transformed our entire family. He gave my dad, who didn't finish high 
school, a good job working at Sun World packing in Thermal and a ticket 
to the middle class.
  He promoted my dad to eventually manage the plant. That allowed my 
family to move from our trailer and into our home in Coachella.
  He used to give us Angels and Dodgers baseball tickets and giant 
Hershey chocolate bars for Christmas. For a kid who loves chocolate, 
those giant bars were like a gift from God Himself.
  What really moves me is that he paid for a full year of my undergrad 
studies at UCLA, when my dad couldn't afford it. Imagine that. He 
helped a boy from a trailer park, son of farmworkers, achieve his 
dreams to be a doctor and serve the community. He did so without 
fanfare, headlines, or public recognition. He did it because he cared 
for

[[Page H4709]]

my dad, my family, and me. Without him, I wouldn't be where I am today.
  The amazing thing is that I am not the sole person touched and 
transformed by his kindness. There are so many more. His generosity and 
kindness are an inspiration.
  My thoughts and prayers are with his wife, Ardith, his four children, 
and nine grandchildren. I know that Howard's legacy will live on 
because his work touched so many across California and the Nation.
  So on behalf of the people of California's 36th Congressional 
District; my wife, Monica; my girls, Sky and Sage; my mother, Blanca; 
my brother, Robbin; and my sister, Star, thank you, Mr. Marguleas. You 
will forever be in our hearts.

                          ____________________



