

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 88 (Monday, May 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 88 (Monday, May 22, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3069-S3070]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr. Warner):
       S. 1190. A bill to extend the waiver of limitations with 
     respect to excluding from gross income amounts received by 
     wrongfully incarcerated individuals; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY:
       S. 1191. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to refine how Medicare pays for orthotics and prosthetics 
     and to improve beneficiary experience and outcomes with 
     orthotic and prosthetic care, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. ROUNDS (for himself and Ms. Hirono):
       S. 1192. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for pro-rated charges to entitlement to educational 
     assistance under Department of Veterans Affairs Post-9/11 
     Educational Assistance Program for certain licensure and 
     certification tests and national tests, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. MENENDEZ:
       S. 1193. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to provide a credit for employer-provided job training, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Mr. Grassley):
       S. 1194. A bill to provide for the coverage of medically 
     necessary food and vitamins for digestive and inherited 
     metabolic disorders under Federal health programs and private 
     health insurance, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. PORTMAN:
       S. 1195. A bill to amend title 44, United States Code, to 
     restrict the distribution of free printed copies of the 
     Federal Register to Members of Congress and other officers 
     and employees of the United States, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
     Affairs.
           By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself, Mr. Cruz, Mr. Schatz, Mr. 
             Peters, Mr.

[[Page S3070]]

             Cotton, Mr. Manchin, Mrs. Capito, and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 1196. A bill to expand the capacity and capability of 
     the ballistic missile defense system of the United States, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and Mr. Cassidy):
       S. 1197. A bill to waive the 24-month waiting period for 
     Medicare eligibility for individuals disabled by Huntington's 
     disease; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Ms. WARREN (for herself and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 1198. A bill to protect individuals who are eligible for 
     increase pension under laws administered by the Secretary of 
     Veterans Affairs on the basis of need of regular aid and 
     attendance from dishonest, predatory, or otherwise unlawful 
     practices, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mrs. McCASKILL:
       S. 1199. A bill to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
     to reauthorize the Border Enforcement Security Task Force 
     program within the Department of Homeland Security, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. FLAKE:
       S. 1200. A bill to require that certain prevailing wage 
     determinations be made using representative statistical 
     sample techniques; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mrs. McCASKILL:
       S. 1201. A bill to allow individuals living in areas 
     without qualified health plans offered through an Exchange to 
     have similar access to health insurance coverage as members 
     of Congress and congressional staff; to the Committee on 
     Finance.

                          ____________________



