

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 118 (Thursday, July 13, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3998]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]





                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, a bill to award the 
Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his heroic 
achievements and courageous contributions to peace in the Middle East.


                                 S. 497

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. Moran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 497, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage of 
certain lymphedema compression treatment items as items of durable 
medical equipment.


                                 S. 708

  At the request of Mr. Markey, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 708, a bill to improve the 
ability of U.S. Customs and Border Protection to interdict fentanyl, 
other synthetic opioids, and other narcotics and psychoactive 
substances that are illegally imported into the United States, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 926

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Hawaii 
(Ms. Hirono) was added as a cosponsor of S. 926, a bill to authorize 
the Global War on Terror Memorial Foundation to establish the National 
Global War on Terrorism Memorial as a commemorative work in the 
District of Columbia, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1002

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the names of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) and the Senator from Florida (Mr. Rubio) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1002, a bill to enhance the ability of community 
financial institutions to foster economic growth and serve their 
communities, boost small businesses, increase individual savings, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1024

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the names of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) and the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1024, a bill to amend title 38, United States Code, 
to reform the rights and processes relating to appeals of decisions 
regarding claims for benefits under the laws administered by the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from North 
Dakota (Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1024, supra.


                                S. 1028

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Nelson) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1028, a bill to provide for 
the establishment and maintenance of a National Family Caregiving 
Strategy, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1050

  At the request of Mr. Cochran, the name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. Inhofe) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1050, a bill to award a 
Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the Chinese-American 
Veterans of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated service 
during World War II.


                                S. 1182

  At the request of Mr. Young, the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) and the Senator from Wyoming (Mr. Enzi) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1182, a bill to require the Secretary of the 
Treasury to mint commemorative coins in recognition of the 100th 
anniversary of The American Legion.


                                S. 1307

  At the request of Mrs. Feinstein, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1307, a bill 
to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to expand eligibility to 
receive refundable tax credits for coverage under a qualified health 
plan.


                                S. 1353

  At the request of Mr. Leahy, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1353, a bill to require 
States to automatically register eligible voters to vote in elections 
for Federal offices, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1391

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. Murray) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1391, a bill to amend 
title IV of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity 
Reconciliation Act of 1996 to restore Medicaid coverage for citizens of 
the Freely Associated States lawfully residing in the United States 
under the Compacts of Free Association between the Government of the 
United States and the Governments of the Federated States of 
Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of 
Palau.


                                S. 1426

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1426, a bill to amend 
the Ted Stevens Olympic and Amateur Sports Act to expand the purposes 
of the corporation, to designate the United States Center for Safe 
Sport, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1455

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1455, a bill to amend the United 
States Energy Storage Competitiveness Act of 2007 to direct the 
Secretary of Energy to establish new goals for the Department of Energy 
relating to energy storage and to carry out certain demonstration 
projects relating to energy storage.


                                S. 1457

  At the request of Mr. Flake, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1457, a bill to amend the Energy 
Policy Act of 2005 to direct the Secretary of Energy to carry out 
demonstration projects relating to advanced nuclear reactor 
technologies to support domestic energy needs.


                                S. 1512

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1512, a bill to 
prohibit the Secretary of Energy, the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency, the Secretary of the Interior, the 
Secretary of Transportation, and the Chair of the Council on 
Environmental Quality from considering, in taking any action, the 
social cost of carbon, the social cost of methane, the social cost of 
nitrous oxide, or the social cost of any other greenhouse gas, unless 
compliant with Office of Management and Budget guidance, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1529

  At the request of Ms. Heitkamp, the name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. Tester) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1529, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to expand eligibility for the refundable 
credit for coverage under a qualified health plan.


                                S. 1532

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the names of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) and the Senator from Florida (Mr. Rubio) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1532, a bill to disqualify from operating a commercial 
motor vehicle for life an individual who uses a commercial motor 
vehicle in committing a felony involving human trafficking.


                                S. 1536

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the names of the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. Cornyn) and the Senator from Florida (Mr. Rubio) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1536, a bill to designate a human trafficking 
prevention coordinator and to expand the scope of activities authorized 
under the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration's outreach and 
education program to include human trafficking prevention activities, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1540

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1540, a bill 
to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow a credit against 
tax for investments in qualified production facilities.


                              S. RES. 211

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the names of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Carper) and the Senator from New York (Mr. Schumer) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 211, a resolution condemning the violence and 
persecution in Chechnya.

                          ____________________



