

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 111 (Wednesday, June 28, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 111 (Wednesday, June 28, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3831-S3833]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




          STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

      By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr. Heller, Mr. Bennet, and Mr. 
        Gardner):
  S. 1464. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to expand 
the exclusion for energy conservation subsidies provided by public 
utilities to include subsidies provided by public utilities and State 
and local governments for water conservation and storm water 
management; to the Committee on Finance.
  Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, today Senators Heller, Bennet, 
Gardner, and I are introducing the Water Conservation Tax Parity Act. 
This bill would exempt the value of residential water conservation and 
storm water runoff management rebates from gross income calculations.
  California and the western States have been facing a severe drought. 
Some public utilities, state and local governments, and water 
management providers offer programs to promote water conservation and 
storm water management by providing subsidies. These programs help 
stimulate responsible water use; however, residential participation is 
essential to their success.
  For example, the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California 
has offered a rebate program to encourage residents to replace turf 
with more water-responsible landscapes. More than 23,000 households 
have benefited from the turf removal rebates, and the average rebate 
per household covers 1,500 square feet or about $3,000, which covers 
about half of the cost to the resident.
  Section 136 of the Internal Revenue Code already exempts energy 
conservation rebates from inclusion in gross income. However, there is 
no Federal exemption for water conservation or storm water management 
measures, which may undermine incentives for participation in these 
programs. These programs are just as valuable as energy conservation 
programs and should be treated equally in the tax code. This bill would 
simply exempt water conservation and storm water management rebates 
from being included in gross income and would be retroactive to 2015. 
This would maintain the important incentives for resident participation 
in critical water conservation measures.
  This bill is supported by a coalition of organizations and public 
utilities, including the Western Urban Water Coalition, Alliance for 
Water Efficiency, American Water Works Association, National 
Association of Water Companies, U.S. Water Alliance, Association of 
Water Agencies, WaterNow Alliance, Western Coalition of Arid States, 
and National Water Resources Association. This bill is crucial to 
ensuring residents continue participating in water conservation and 
storm water management programs.
  Mr. President, I strongly urge my colleagues to support this 
legislation and am hopeful that this Congress will move it forward.
  Thank you. I yield the floor.
                                 ______
                                 
      By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Mr. Murphy):
  S. 1466. A bill to require the Secretary of Defense to award grants 
to

[[Page S3832]]

fund research on orthotics and prosthetics, and for other purposes; to 
the Committee on Armed Services.
  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of 
the bill be printed in the Record.
  There being no objection, the text of the bill was ordered to be 
printed in the Record, as follows:

                                S. 1466

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Wounded Warrior Research 
     Enhancement Act''.

     SEC. 2. ORTHOTIC AND PROSTHETIC RESEARCH.

       (a) Purpose.--The purpose of the grants described in this 
     section is to advance orthotic and prosthetic clinical care 
     for members of the Armed Forces, veterans, and civilians who 
     have undergone amputation, traumatic brain injury, and other 
     serious physical injury as a result of combat or military 
     experience.
       (b) Grants for Research on Patient Outcomes.--The Secretary 
     of Defense shall award grants to persons to carry out 
     research on the following:
       (1) The actions that can be taken to prevent amputation of 
     limbs.
       (2) The point in the course of patient treatment during 
     which orthotic and prosthetic intervention is most effective.
       (3) The orthotic interventions that are most effective in 
     treating the physical effects of traumatic brain injury.
       (4) The patients that benefit most from particular orthotic 
     and prosthetic technologies.
       (5) The orthotic and prosthetic services that best 
     facilitate the return to active duty of members of the Armed 
     Forces.
       (6) The effect of the aging process on the use of 
     prosthetics, including--
       (A) increased skin breakdown;
       (B) loss of balance;
       (C) falls; and
       (D) other issues that arise during the aging process.
       (c) Grants on Materials Research.--The Secretary shall 
     award grants to persons to carry out research on the 
     following:
       (1) The improvement of existing materials used in orthotics 
     and prosthetics for the purpose of improving quality of life 
     and health outcomes for individuals with limb loss.
       (2) The development of new materials used in orthotics and 
     prosthetics for the purpose of improving quality of life and 
     health outcomes for individuals with limb loss.
       (d) Grants on Technology Research.--The Secretary shall 
     award grants to persons to carry out research on the 
     following:
       (1) The improvement of existing orthotic and prosthetic 
     technology and devices for the purpose of improving quality 
     of life and health outcomes for individuals with limb loss.
       (2) The development of new orthotic and prosthetic 
     technology and devices for the purpose of improving quality 
     of life and health outcomes for individuals with limb loss.
       (e) Request for Proposals.--A person seeking the award of a 
     grant under this section shall submit to the Secretary an 
     application therefor in the form and accompanied by such 
     information as the Secretary shall require.
       (f) Award Requirements.--
       (1) Peer-reviewed proposals.--Grants under this section may 
     be awarded only for research that is peer-reviewed.
       (2) Competitive procedures.--Grants under this section 
     shall be awarded through competitive procedures.
       (g) Grant Use.--A person awarded a grant under subsection 
     (b), (c), or (d) shall use the grant amount to carry out the 
     research described in the applicable subsection.
       (h) Reports.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
     enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than annually 
     thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation 
     with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, veterans, community-
     based clinicians, and expert researchers in the field of 
     orthotics and prosthetics, submit to Congress a report 
     setting forth the following:
       (1) An agenda for orthotic and prosthetic research that 
     identifies and prioritizes the most significant unanswered 
     orthotic and prosthetic research questions pertinent to the 
     provision of evidence-based clinical care to members of the 
     Armed Forces, veterans, and civilians.
       (2) For each report after the initial report under this 
     subsection--
       (A) a summary of how the grants awarded under subsection 
     (b) are addressing the most significant orthotic and 
     prosthetic needs; and
       (B) the progress made towards resolving orthotic and 
     prosthetic challenges facing members of the Armed Forces and 
     veterans.
       (i) Veteran Defined.--In this section, the term ``veteran'' 
     has the meaning given that term in section 101 of title 38, 
     United States Code.
       (j) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized 
     to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for the Department of 
     Defense for the Defense Health Program, $30,000,000 to carry 
     out this section.
                                 ______
                                 
      By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. 
        Klobuchar, Mr. Coons, Mr. Franken, Mr. Nelson, Mrs. Feinstein, 
        Ms. Duckworth, and Mr. Peters):
  S. 1467. A bill to require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to award 
grants to establish, or expand upon, master's degree programs in 
orthotics and prosthetics, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs.
  Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the text of 
the bill be printed in the Record.
  There being no objection, the text of the bill was ordered to be 
printed in the Record, as follows:

                                S. 1467

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of 
     the United States of America in Congress assembled,

     SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

       This Act may be cited as the ``Wounded Warrior Workforce 
     Enhancement Act''.

     SEC. 2. ORTHOTICS AND PROSTHETICS EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT.

       (a) Grants Required.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
     award grants to eligible institutions to enable the eligible 
     institutions--
       (A) to establish a master's degree program in orthotics and 
     prosthetics; or
       (B) to expand upon an existing master's degree program in 
     orthotics and prosthetics, including by admitting more 
     students, further training faculty, expanding facilities, or 
     increasing cooperation with the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs and the Department of Defense.
       (2) Priority.--The Secretary shall give priority in the 
     award of grants under this section to eligible institutions 
     that have entered into a partnership with a medical center or 
     clinic administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs or 
     a facility administered by the Department of Defense, 
     including by providing clinical rotations at such medical 
     center, clinic, or facility.
       (3) Grant amounts.--Grants awarded under this section shall 
     be in amounts of not less than $1,000,000 and not more than 
     $1,500,000.
       (b) Requests for Proposals.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than 
     annually thereafter for two years, the Secretary shall issue 
     a request for proposals from eligible institutions for grants 
     under this section.
       (2) Proposals.--An eligible institution that seeks the 
     award of a grant under this section shall submit an 
     application therefor to the Secretary at such time, in such 
     manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary 
     may require, including--
       (A) demonstration of a willingness and ability to 
     participate in a partnership described in subsection (a)(2); 
     and
       (B) a commitment, and demonstration of an ability, to 
     maintain an accredited orthotics and prosthetics education 
     program after the end of the grant period.
       (c) Grant Uses.--
       (1) In general.--An eligible institution awarded a grant 
     under this section shall use grant amounts to carry out any 
     of the following:
       (A) Building new or expanding existing orthotics and 
     prosthetics master's degree programs.
       (B) Training doctoral candidates in fields related to 
     orthotics and prosthetics to prepare them to instruct in 
     orthotics and prosthetics programs.
       (C) Training faculty in orthotics and prosthetics education 
     or related fields for the purpose of instruction in orthotics 
     and prosthetics programs.
       (D) Salary supplementation for faculty in orthotics and 
     prosthetics education.
       (E) Financial aid that allows eligible institutions to 
     admit additional students to study orthotics and prosthetics.
       (F) Funding faculty research projects or faculty time to 
     undertake research in the areas of orthotics and prosthetics 
     for the purpose of furthering their teaching abilities.
       (G) Renovation of buildings or minor construction to house 
     orthotics and prosthetics education programs.
       (H) Purchasing equipment for orthotics and prosthetics 
     education.
       (2) Limitation on construction.--An eligible institution 
     awarded a grant under this section may use not more than 50 
     percent of the grant amount to carry out paragraph (1)(G).
       (3) Admissions preference.--An eligible institution awarded 
     a grant under this section shall give preference in admission 
     to the orthotics and prosthetics master's degree programs to 
     veterans, to the extent practicable.
       (4) Period of use of funds.--An eligible institution 
     awarded a grant under this section may use the grant amount 
     for a period of three years after the award of the grant.
       (d) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``eligible institution'' means an educational 
     institution that offers an orthotics and prosthetics 
     education program that--
       (A) is accredited by the National Commission on Orthotic 
     and Prosthetic Education in cooperation with the Commission 
     on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs; or
       (B) demonstrates an ability to meet the accreditation 
     requirements for orthotic and prosthetic education from the 
     National Commission on Orthotic and Prosthetic Education in 
     cooperation with the Commission

[[Page S3833]]

     on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs if the 
     institution receives a grant under this section.
       (2) The term ``veteran'' has the meaning given that term in 
     section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
       (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--
       (1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated for 
     fiscal year 2018 for the Department of Veterans Affairs, 
     $15,000,000 to carry out this section. The amount so 
     authorized to be appropriated shall remain available for 
     obligation until September 30, 2020.
       (2) Unobligated amounts to be returned to the treasury.--
     Any amounts authorized to be appropriated by paragraph (1) 
     that are not obligated by the Secretary as of September 30, 
     2020, shall be returned to the Treasury of the United States.

     SEC. 3. CENTER OF EXCELLENCE IN ORTHOTIC AND PROSTHETIC 
                   EDUCATION.

       (a) Grant for Establishment of Center.--
       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
     award a grant to an eligible institution to enable the 
     eligible institution--
       (A) to establish the Center of Excellence in Orthotic and 
     Prosthetic Education (in this section referred to as the 
     ``Center''); and
       (B) to enable the eligible institution to improve orthotic 
     and prosthetic outcomes for veterans, members of the Armed 
     Forces, and civilians by conducting evidence-based research 
     on--
       (i) the knowledge, skills, and training most needed by 
     clinical professionals in the field of orthotics and 
     prosthetics; and
       (ii) how to most effectively prepare clinical professionals 
     to provide effective, high-quality orthotic and prosthetic 
     care.
       (2) Priority.--The Secretary shall give priority in the 
     award of a grant under this section to an eligible 
     institution that has in force, or demonstrates the 
     willingness and ability to enter into, a memoranda of 
     understanding with the Department of Veterans Affairs, the 
     Department of Defense, or other appropriate Federal agency, 
     or a cooperative agreement with an appropriate private sector 
     entity, which memorandum of understanding or cooperative 
     agreement provides for either, or both, of the following:
       (A) The provision of resources, whether in cash or in kind, 
     to the Center.
       (B) Assistance to the Center in conducting research and 
     disseminating the results of such research.
       (3) Grant amount.--The grant awarded under this section 
     shall be in the amount of $5,000,000.
       (b) Requests for Proposals.--
       (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
     the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue a 
     request for proposals from eligible institutions for the 
     grant under this section.
       (2) Proposals.--An eligible institution that seeks the 
     award of the grant under this section shall submit an 
     application therefor to the Secretary at such time, in such 
     manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary 
     may require.
       (c) Grant Uses.--
       (1) In general.--The eligible institution awarded the grant 
     under this section shall use the grant amount as follows:
       (A) To develop an agenda for orthotics and prosthetics 
     education research.
       (B) To fund research in the area of orthotics and 
     prosthetics education.
       (C) To publish or otherwise disseminate research findings 
     relating to orthotics and prosthetics education.
       (2) Period of use of funds.--The eligible institution 
     awarded the grant under this section may use the grant amount 
     for a period of five years after the award of the grant.
       (d) Definitions.--In this section:
       (1) The term ``eligible institution'' means an educational 
     institution that--
       (A) has a robust research program;
       (B) offers an orthotics and prosthetics education program 
     that is accredited by the National Commission on Orthotic and 
     Prosthetic Education in cooperation with the Commission on 
     Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs;
       (C) is well recognized in the field of orthotics and 
     prosthetics education; and
       (D) has an established association with--
       (i) a medical center or clinic of the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs; and
       (ii) a local rehabilitation hospital.
       (2) The term ``veteran'' has the meaning given that term in 
     section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
       (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized 
     to be appropriated for fiscal year 2018 for the Department of 
     Veterans Affairs, $5,000,000 to carry out this section.

                          ____________________



