

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 75 (Tuesday, May 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 75 (Tuesday, May 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2679]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                   RECOGNIZING FIN FUN MERMAID TAILS

 Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, the American dream is alive and well 
today. Entrepreneurs across this country are innovators, leaders, and 
visionaries who exemplify many of the characteristics that make this 
country great. Idaho's small businesses and the entrepreneurs behind 
them share a dedication to producing the highest quality products and 
services. Hard work, dedication, and passion are among some of the 
other traits that successful entrepreneurs share, whether they be from 
Idaho or anywhere else in our great country. All of these qualities are 
on display in this month's Small Business of the Month. As chairman of 
the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, it is my 
pleasure to recognize Fin Fun Mermaid Tails as the Senate Small 
Business of the Month for May 2017.
  Fin Fun got its start in 2009 when its founder, Karen Browning, was 
asked by her granddaughter to design and make a mermaid tail. Even with 
over 50 years of experience sewing, she was not sure she could complete 
her granddaughter's request. With some creativity and ingenuity, Mrs. 
Browning designed the mermaid fins out of spandex swimsuit material and 
a rigid body for the fin. The design proved so popular that, when Emily 
and her sister, Sarah, swam with the fins on at the local pool, all 
their friends asked where they could get a tail of their own. Mrs. 
Browning began selling the product on eBay and Etsy in 2010. With 
demand increasing, Mrs. Browning's sons, Eric and Steve Browning, 
returned to Idaho to run the Fin Fun business. Sales of Fin Fun 
products increased dramatically since its opening, from selling 200 
mermaid tails per month in 2011 to more than 500,000 in 2016.
  Fin Fun offers a number of products including their famous mermaid 
tails, patented Monofin, swimwear, animal blankets, pool toys, and 
other accessories. In 2012, Eric and Steve Browning took over the day-
to-day operations of the company as the founders Jerry and Karen went 
on a mission for their church. In 2015, Fin Fun purchased a 10,000-
square-foot building located on the Lewisville Highway, where the 
company continues to grow. In that same year, Fin Fun was highlighted 
by various media outlets, including the Wall Street Journal. In 2016, 
the company was named to Inc. 500's fastest growing companies list, as 
the 119th fastest growing company with 3,000 percent growth over a 3-
year period. Through the leadership of Eric and Steve Browning and the 
success of Fin Fun, the company has created more than 75 full-time and 
part-time jobs within the Idaho Falls area.
  As a family-run business, Fin Fun continues to set an example by 
donating a percentage of its profits to more than 18 charitable 
organizations annually, in addition to providing employment and support 
to the local community. Fin Fun is the manifestation of the 
entrepreneurial spirit that epitomizes the essence of the great State 
of Idaho. I would like to extend my sincerest congratulations to the 
employees and owners of Fin Fun Mermaid for being selected as the May 
2017 Small Business of the Month. You make our great State proud, and I 
look forward to watching your continued growth and success.

                          ____________________



