

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 127 (Thursday, July 27, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 127 (Thursday, July 27, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4418-S4419]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                TRIBUTE TO DR. JOSEPH T. ``TIM'' ARCANO

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I wish to commend Dr. Joseph T. ``Tim'' 
Arcano, technical director for Naval Surface Warfare Center, NSWC, 
Carderock Division, who is retiring after a lifetime

[[Page S4419]]

of service to the U.S. Navy, our Federal Government, and the scientific 
community.
  Tim Arcano has dedicated his professional life to serving our 
country, first in the military and later as a civil servant. His 
knowledge of ships and the oceans they sail and nuclear safety and 
capabilities has been developed through his education and in his myriad 
positions throughout the Navy and our Federal Government. Two of Dr. 
Arcano's academic degrees were earned in my us, home State, where he 
attended the U.S. Naval Academy, and later earned his Ph.D. at the 
University of Maryland. In addition, he holds an Ocean Engineer degree 
and a masters in mechanical engineering from the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, MIT.
  Dr. Arcano's first career was in our military, where he served for 30 
years in both Active and Reserve service. As technical director and 
ship design manager for the Virginia-Class Submarine Program, as 
technical authority for advanced submarines at Naval Sea System 
Command, NAVSEA, and as a program manager at the Defense Nuclear 
Facilities Safety Board, Dr. Arcano developed an understanding and 
expertise that few can match. Those skills were further utilized in 
five Reserve commands.
  Dr. Arcano's dedication to our country continued after his transition 
from Active service to the Reserves in 1992 and his later retirement 
from the Navy as captain in June of 2008. He served as deputy chief of 
Nuclear Safety at the United States Department of Energy and as the 
director of the Office of Ocean Exploration and Research at the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. During that time, he 
returned to the Naval Academy to hold the Corbin A. McNeill Endowed 
Chair in Naval Engineering, where he created a course on engineering of 
submersible systems.
  Dr. Arcano came to NSWC Carderock in May of 2013, bringing his wealth 
of experience as he took the helm of a campus of over 3,000 employees. 
His impact has been magnified by his commitment to STEM education and 
developing the next generation of scientific leaders. Under Dr. 
Arcano's leadership, employees at NSWC Carderock have mentored 
countless high school and college interns, even reaching to our 
youngest developing scientists by leading elementary students in FIRST 
Robotics clubs. Dr. Arcano ``walks the walk'' himself, giving greatly 
of his own time by taking interns under his wing to offer advice and 
helping them chart their path, wherever that might lead.
  As part of his encouragement of STEM education, Dr. Arcano and NSWC 
Carderock have continued to host the International Human Powered 
Submarine Races. Teams from not just corporations and research centers, 
but from universities and even high schools come from around the world 
to race their independently built one- or two-person submarines through 
a course at the historic David Taylor Model Basin at Carderock. For 2 
years, these competitors learn about hydrodynamic design, propulsion, 
underwater life support, materials science, and other scientific 
principles in creating their own designs for these vehicles. The 
lessons learned, both in science and engineering and in collaborating 
on a team project, help to fuel their enthusiasm for careers in science 
and technology.
  Dr. Arcano's career reflects his selflessness, his unparalleled 
leadership capabilities, and his devotion to our country. He commands 
the respect and admiration of all who have had the privilege to know 
and work with him. His leadership will be greatly missed, but he has 
left a legacy of scientific leadership that will continue to develop 
through the principles and practice that he exercised every day. We are 
deeply grateful for his devotion to our national security, to naval 
science, and to America's future generations.
  I offer the thanks of a grateful nation to Dr. Arcano and, by 
extension, to his family--his wife, Brenda, their daughter, Heather, 
and sons, Greg, Joseph, and Tyler--for as we all know, the support of 
family is critical. I am honored and pleased to recognize Dr. Tim 
Arcano for his outstanding career in public service and wish him all 
the best in his future pursuits.

                          ____________________



