

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 86 (Thursday, May 18, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4355-H4358]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. DeFAZIO (for himself, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, 
             and Mrs. Napolitano):
       H.R. 2510. A bill to amend the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act to authorize appropriations for State water 
     pollution control revolving funds, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.

[[Page H4356]]

  

           By Mr. THORNBERRY:
       H.R. 2511. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     streamline the acquisition system, invest early in 
     acquisition programs, improve the acquisition workforce, and 
     improve transparency in the acquisition system; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois (for himself, Mrs. 
             Dingell, and Ms. Moore):
       H.R. 2512. A bill to amend title IV of the Social Security 
     Act to expand foster parent training and provides new 
     appropriations to support the obtainment of a driver's 
     license; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mrs. HARTZLER:
       H.R. 2513. A bill to allow certain off-duty law enforcement 
     officers and retired law enforcement officers to carry a 
     concealed firearm to protect children in a school zone; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO (for himself, Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi, and Mrs. Watson Coleman):
       H.R. 2514. A bill to amend title 49, United States Code, to 
     ensure that revenues collected from passengers as aviation 
     security fees are used to help finance the costs of aviation 
     security screening by repealing a requirement that a portion 
     of such fees be credited as offsetting receipts and deposited 
     in the general fund of the Treasury; to the Committee on 
     Homeland Security.
           By Mr. FRANCIS ROONEY of Florida:
       H.R. 2515. A bill to direct the Secretary of Labor to 
     remove travel agencies from the partial list of 
     establishments having no retail concept for the purposes of 
     certain exemptions under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
     1938; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. YOUNG of Iowa (for himself, Mr. King of Iowa, 
             and Mr. Blum):
       H.R. 2516. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to waive the individual mandate in areas with no 
     Exchange plans; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. TAYLOR (for himself and Mr. Takano):
       H.R. 2517. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     provide for requirements relating to the reassignment of 
     Department of Veterans Affairs senior executive employees; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. HUNTER (for himself, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Shuster, 
             and Mr. DeFazio):
       H.R. 2518. A bill to authorize appropriations for the Coast 
     Guard for fiscal years 2018 and 2019, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. WALZ (for himself, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Ms. 
             Pelosi, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Arrington, Mr. Bacon, Mr. 
             Banks of Indiana, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Bera, Mr. Bergman, 
             Mr. Biggs, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. Bishop of Michigan, Mr. 
             Bishop of Georgia, Mr. Bishop of Utah, Mr. Blum, Mr. 
             Blumenauer, Ms. Bonamici, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Bost, Mr. 
             Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania, Mrs. Brooks of 
             Indiana, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Buchanan, 
             Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Carbajal, Mr. Carson of Indiana, 
             Mr. Castro of Texas, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. 
             Coffman, Mr. Cole, Mr. Correa, Mr. Crist, Mr. Curbelo 
             of Florida, Mr. Denham, Mr. Donovan, Mr. Duncan of 
             Tennessee, Mr. Dunn, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Esty of 
             Connecticut, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Franks of Arizona, 
             Mr. Fortenberry, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Gallego, Miss 
             Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto Rico, Mr. Higgins of 
             Louisiana, Mr. Jones, Mr. Khanna, Mr. Kind, Mr. King 
             of Iowa, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Knight, Ms. Kuster 
             of New Hampshire, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Lawson of Florida, 
             Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Lipinski, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Mast, Ms. 
             McCollum, Mr. McGovern, Mr. McKinley, Mrs. McMorris 
             Rodgers, Mr. McNerney, Ms. Meng, Mrs. Noem, Ms. 
             Norton, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Pallone, Mr. 
             Panetta, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Peters, Mr. Peterson, 
             Ms. Pingree, Mr. Poliquin, Mr. Polis, Mrs. Radewagen, 
             Mr. Raskin, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Richmond, Ms. 
             Roybal-Allard, Mr. Rutherford, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. 
             Sablan, Mr. Schweikert, Ms. Sinema, Ms. Slaughter, 
             Mr. Takano, Mr. Thompson of California, Mr. Thompson 
             of Pennsylvania, Ms. Titus, Mr. Vargas, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Walden, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Welch, Mr. 
             Wenstrup, Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, and Mr. 
             Zeldin):
       H.R. 2519. A bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
     to mint commemorative coins in recognition of the 100th 
     anniversary of The American Legion; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself, Mr. Fitzpatrick, and 
             Mr. Flores):
       H.R. 2520. A bill to require providers of broadband 
     internet access service and edge services to clearly and 
     conspicuously notify users of the privacy policies of such 
     providers, to give users opt-in or opt-out approval rights 
     with respect to the use of, disclosure of, and access to user 
     information collected by such providers based on the level of 
     sensitivity of such information, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina (for himself, Mr. Rice 
             of South Carolina, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. 
             Clyburn, Mr. Gowdy, and Mr. Sanford):
       H.R. 2521. A bill to amend the Farm Security and Rural 
     Investment Act of 2002 to include South Carolina as a part of 
     the Virginia/Carolina peanut producing region for purposes of 
     appointment to the Peanut Standards Board; to the Committee 
     on Agriculture.
           By Mr. BANKS of Indiana:
       H.R. 2522. A bill to require the Inspector General of the 
     Environmental Protection Agency to submit reports to Congress 
     on paper and property inventory, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committees on Agriculture, Transportation and Infrastructure, 
     and Science, Space, and Technology, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Takano, 
             Mr. Courtney, Ms. Lee, and Mr. Scott of Virginia):
       H.R. 2523. A bill to amend the Employee Retirement Income 
     Security Act of 1974 with respect to the scope of employee 
     pension benefit plans; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
       H.R. 2524. A bill to provide for conveyance of a former 
     immigration and customs facility from the Department of 
     Homeland Security to Ventura County, California; to the 
     Committee on Homeland Security.
           By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. 
             Kaptur, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Moore, Mr. Langevin, Mr. 
             Takano, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Lewis of Georgia, Mr. 
             Himes, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Clay, Mr. 
             Ruiz, and Mr. Castro of Texas):
       H.R. 2525. A bill to improve the financial literacy of 
     students; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for herself, Mr. Peters, 
             Ms. DelBene, Mr. Payne, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Takano, Mr. 
             Yarmuth, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Pocan, Mr. 
             Kilmer, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Norton, Ms. 
             Jackson Lee, Mr. DeFazio, Ms. Lee, Mrs. Napolitano, 
             Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Beyer, Mrs. Lawrence, and Ms. 
             Kelly of Illinois):
       H.R. 2526. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to reinstate the authority of the Secretary of Education to 
     make Federal Direct Stafford Loans to graduate and 
     professional students; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Mr. Danny K. Davis of 
             Illinois, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Johnson of 
             Georgia, Ms. Brownley of California, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
             Conyers, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Moulton, Mr. 
             Yarmuth, Ms. Titus, Mr. Deutch, Ms. Moore, Mr. 
             McNerney, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Welch, Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida, Mr. Meeks, Ms. Lee, and Mr. Courtney):
       H.R. 2527. A bill to amend title 11 of the United States 
     Code to modify the dischargeability of debts for certain 
     educational payments and loans; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. DeGETTE (for herself and Mr. Coffman):
       H.R. 2528. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances Act to 
     provide that Federal law shall not preempt State law; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. EMMER:
       H.R. 2529. A bill to direct the Secretary of Transportation 
     to establish a national intersection and interchange safety 
     construction program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Miss GONZALEZ-COLON of Puerto Rico:
       H.R. 2530. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to make residents of Puerto Rico eligible for the earned 
     income tax credit; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Miss GONZALEZ-COLON of Puerto Rico:
       H.R. 2531. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to apply Medicare part B deemed enrollment 
     process to residents of Puerto Rico; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways 
     and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. GRANGER (for herself and Mrs. Lawrence):
       H.R. 2532. A bill to realign structures and reallocate 
     resources in the Federal Government in keeping with the core 
     belief that

[[Page H4357]]

     families are the best protection for children and the bedrock 
     of any society to bolster United States diplomacy targeted at 
     ensuring that every child can grow up in a permanent, safe, 
     nurturing, and loving family, and to ensure that intercountry 
     adoption to the United States becomes a viable and fully 
     developed option for providing families for children in need, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. KATKO (for himself, Ms. Sinema, and Ms. 
             Stefanik):
       H.R. 2533. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for parent savings accounts, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. KIND (for himself, Mr. Pascrell, and Ms. 
             DelBene):
       H.R. 2534. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to reduce the rate of tax on domestic manufacturing 
     income to 20 percent; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself and Mr. Harper):
       H.R. 2535. A bill to amend title XXIX of the Public Health 
     Service Act to reauthorize the program under such title 
     relating to lifespan respite care; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce.
           By Mr. LOEBSACK:
       H.R. 2536. A bill to provide for grants for energy 
     efficiency improvements and renewable energy improvements at 
     public school facilities; to the Committee on Education and 
     the Workforce.
           By Mr. MEADOWS (for himself and Mr. Smith of New 
             Jersey):
       H.R. 2537. A bill to designate the area between the 
     intersections of International Drive Northwest and Van Ness 
     Street Northwest and International Drive Northwest and 
     International Place Northwest in Washington, District of 
     Columbia, as ``Liu Xiaobo Plaza'', and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Ms. MENG:
       H.R. 2538. A bill to provide certain workplace protections 
     to interns relating to discriminatory practices; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to 
     the Committees on House Administration, Oversight and 
     Government Reform, and the Judiciary, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Ms. MENG (for herself, Mr. Crowley, Mr. Gallego, Mr. 
             Quigley, Mr. Suozzi, Ms. Norton, Ms. Schakowsky, Ms. 
             Speier, Mr. Capuano, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Smith 
             of Washington, and Ms. Eshoo):
       H.R. 2539. A bill to reestablish the Office of Noise 
     Abatement and Control in the Environmental Protection Agency, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. NORTON:
       H.R. 2540. A bill to amend the Coastal Zone Management Act 
     of 1972 to allow the District of Columbia to receive Federal 
     funding under such Act, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr. Chabot, and Mr. 
             Swalwell of California):
       H.R. 2541. A bill to provide for a report on the role of 
     incubators and accelerators in the commercialization of 
     federally funded research and regional economic development; 
     to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Mr. QUIGLEY (for himself, Mr. Griffith, Mr. Zeldin, 
             Mr. Capuano, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Cicilline, Ms. Speier, 
             Mr. Cartwright, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Gallego, Mr. 
             Gutierrez, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Beyer, Ms. 
             DelBene, Ms. Norton, and Mr. Langevin):
       H.R. 2542. A bill to amend title 40, United States Code, to 
     direct the Administrator of General Services to incorporate 
     bird-safe building materials and design features into public 
     buildings, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. REED (for himself and Mr. Kind):
       H.R. 2543. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to extend for 2 years the exclusion from gross income of 
     discharges of qualified principal residence indebtedness; to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. RYAN of Ohio (for himself and Mrs. Davis of 
             California):
       H.R. 2544. A bill to require the Director of the National 
     Institutes of Health to carry out a study to add to the 
     scientific knowledge on reducing teacher stress and 
     increasing teacher retention and well-being, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for 
     a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. TORRES (for herself, Mr. Young of Alaska, Mr. 
             Cole, Mr. LaMalfa, and Ms. McCollum):
       H.R. 2545. A bill to reauthorize the special diabetes 
     programs for Indians; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mrs. MIMI WALTERS of California:
       H.R. 2546. A bill to ensure the Chief Information Office of 
     the Federal Communications Commission has a significant role 
     in decisions related to information technology, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. WOODALL (for himself and Ms. Brownley of 
             California):
       H.R. 2547. A bill to expand the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs medical professionals who may qualify to perform 
     physical examinations on eligible veterans and issue medical 
     certificates required for operation of a commercial motor 
     vehicle, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Transportation and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. ARRINGTON (for himself and Mr. Khanna):
       H.J. Res. 101. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
     the Constitution of the United States to limit the number of 
     terms an individual may serve as a Member of Congress; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. BRADY of Texas (for himself, Mr. Neal, and Mr. 
             Reichert):
       H. Con. Res. 54. Concurrent resolution expressing support 
     for strengthening engagement between the United States and 
     the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
     Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
     fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself, Mr. Jenkins of West 
             Virginia, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, Ms. Cheney, 
             Mr. Yoho, Mr. Barr, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. Bucshon, Mr. 
             Griffith, Mr. Rokita, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Perry, Mr. Roe 
             of Tennessee, and Mr. Renacci):
       H. Con. Res. 55. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of Congress that the United States should withdraw from the 
     Paris Agreement, adopted in December 2015; to the Committee 
     on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. MEADOWS (for himself, Mr. Capuano, and Mr. 
             Cummings):
       H. Con. Res. 56. Concurrent resolution expressing support 
     for designation of October 28 as ``Honoring the Nation's 
     First Responders Day''; to the Committee on Transportation 
     and Infrastructure.
           By Mr. ROSS:
       H. Con. Res. 57. Concurrent resolution expressing the sense 
     of Congress that a museum should be established and operated 
     in Washington, D.C. for the purpose of memorializing the 
     victims of communist regimes, educating Americans and foreign 
     visitors about the ideology of communism and its history, and 
     encouraging visitors to meet the challenges of the human 
     rights abuses presented by communist regimes today; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Gene Green 
             of Texas, Ms. Lofgren, Mrs. Torres, Mr. Sires, Mr. 
             Cuellar, Mr. Polis, Mr. Duffy, Mr. Hurd, Mr. Valadao, 
             Ms. McSally, Ms. Sanchez, and Mr. Poe of Texas):
       H. Res. 336. A resolution reaffirming a strong commitment 
     to the United States-Mexico partnership; to the Committee on 
     Foreign Affairs.
           By Mrs. BEATTY (for herself, Mr. Tiberi, Mr. Cleaver, 
             Ms. Kaptur, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Evans, Mr. 
             Yarmuth, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mr. 
             Pocan, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Lee, Ms. Wilson of Florida, 
             Mr. McGovern, and Mr. Luetkemeyer):
       H. Res. 337. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of May as Stroke Awareness Month; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for herself, Ms. Meng, 
             Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. 
             Lowenthal, Mr. Takano, Mr. Sablan, Ms. Gabbard, Ms. 
             Sanchez, Mr. Schiff, Ms. Speier, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Lee, 
             Ms. Matsui, Mr. Peters, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. 
             Velazquez, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. Hanabusa, and 
             Mrs. Davis of California):
       H. Res. 338. A resolution recognizing the significance of 
     Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month in May as an important 
     time to celebrate the significant contributions of Asian 
     Americans and Pacific Islanders to the history of the United 
     States; to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. COURTNEY (for himself, Mr. Young of Alaska, Ms. 
             Bordallo, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. Larsen of 
             Washington, Mr. Gallego, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. 
             Garamendi, and Mr. Langevin):
       H. Res. 339. A resolution calling upon the United States 
     Senate to give its advice and consent to the ratification of 
     the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea; to the 
     Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. ESPAILLAT:
       H. Res. 340. A resolution in support of baseball as the 
     pastime of the United States and condemning racial slurs; to 
     the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
           By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself, Mr. Moulton, Ms. Tsongas, 
             Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. 
             Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr. Keating, Mr. Thompson of 
             Mississippi, Mr. Tonko, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of 
             New Mexico, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. Brownley of 
             California, Mr. Gaetz, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. Turner, Mr. 
             Brady of Pennsylvania, Mr. Levin, Mr. Shuster, Mr.

[[Page H4358]]

             Kilmer, Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, Mr. Courtney, 
             Mr. Gallego, Mr. Brown of Maryland, Ms. Stefanik, Ms. 
             Hanabusa, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Clark of 
             Massachusetts, Mr. Wittman, and Ms. Rosen):
       H. Res. 341. A resolution recognizing the contributions of 
     Defense laboratories to national security and supporting the 
     designation of May 18, 2017, as the ``Department of Defense 
     Laboratory Day 2017''; to the Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mrs. LOWEY (for herself and Mr. Diaz-Balart):
       H. Res. 342. A resolution recognizing the essential 
     contributions of frontline health workers to strengthening 
     the United States national security and economic prosperity, 
     sustaining and expanding progress on global health, and 
     saving the lives of millions of women, men, and children 
     around the world; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
           By Mr. NOLAN:
       H. Res. 343. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives regarding steps that Congress should take 
     to restore democracy and change the way we do politics in the 
     United States by reducing the influence of money and 
     corporations and promoting the participation of the people in 
     politics and government; to the Committee on House 
     Administration, and in addition to the Committees on Rules, 
     and the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined 
     by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
     provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
     concerned.

                          ____________________



