

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 104 (Monday, June 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 104 (Monday, June 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3606-S3608]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 58

  At the request of Mr. Heller, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 58, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on high cost 
employer-sponsored health coverage.


                                 S. 203

  At the request of Mr. Burr, the names of the Senator from Alaska (Mr. 
Sullivan) and the Senator from Alaska (Ms. Murkowski) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 203, a bill to reaffirm that the Environmental 
Protection Agency may not regulate vehicles used solely for 
competition, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 207

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
Louisiana

[[Page S3607]]

(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 207, a bill to amend the 
Controlled Substances Act relating to controlled substance analogues.


                                 S. 231

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from North Dakota 
(Mr. Hoeven) was added as a cosponsor of S. 231, a bill to implement 
equal protection under the 14th Amendment to the Constitution of the 
United States for the right to life of each born and preborn human 
person.


                                 S. 322

  At the request of Mr. Peters, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 322, a bill to 
protect victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and 
dating violence from emotional and psychological trauma caused by acts 
of violence or threats of violence against their pets.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Ms. Cantwell) was added as a cosponsor of S. 407, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the railroad track 
maintenance credit.


                                 S. 450

  At the request of Mr. Manchin, the name of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. Crapo) was added as a cosponsor of S. 450, a bill to award a 
Congressional Gold Medal to members of the Armed Forces who fought in 
defense of Guam, Wake Island, and the Philippine Archipelago between 
December 7, 1941 and May 10, 1942, and who died or were imprisoned by 
the Japanese military in the Philippines, Japan, Korea, Manchuria, Wake 
Island, and Guam from April 9, 1942 until September 2, 1945, in 
recognition of their personal sacrifice and service to the United 
States.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Ms. Cantwell) was added as a cosponsor of S. 540, a bill to limit the 
authority of States to tax certain income of employees for employment 
duties performed in other States.


                                 S. 591

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 591, a bill to expand 
eligibility for the program of comprehensive assistance for family 
caregivers of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to expand benefits 
available to participants under such program, to enhance special 
compensation for members of the uniformed services who require 
assistance in everyday life, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 694

  At the request of Mr. King, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 694, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to increase the standard charitable 
mileage rate for delivery of meals to elderly, disabled, frail, and at 
risk individuals.


                                 S. 740

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Kentucky (Mr. 
Paul) was added as a cosponsor of S. 740, a bill to prohibit mandatory 
or compulsory checkoff programs.


                                 S. 741

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Kentucky (Mr. 
Paul) was added as a cosponsor of S. 741, a bill to prohibit certain 
practices relating to certain commodity promotion programs, to require 
greater transparency by those programs, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 911

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 911, a bill to 
direct the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration to 
issue an order with respect to secondary cockpit barriers, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1015

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. Udall) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1015, a bill to require the 
Federal Communications Commission to study the feasibility of 
designating a simple, easy-to-remember dialing code to be used for a 
national suicide prevention and mental health crisis hotline system.


                                S. 1028

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the names of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons), the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Donnelly) and the Senator 
from Minnesota (Mr. Franken) were added as cosponsors of S. 1028, a 
bill to provide for the establishment and maintenance of a National 
Family Caregiving Strategy, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1044

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1044, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure equal access of 
Medicare beneficiaries to community pharmacies in underserved areas as 
network pharmacies under Medicare prescription drug coverage, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1057

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1057, a bill to amend 
the Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and Control Act of 1998 to 
address harmful algal blooms, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1146

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from 
Minnesota (Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1146, a bill 
to enhance the ability of the Office of the National Ombudsman to 
assist small businesses in meeting regulatory requirements and develop 
outreach initiatives to promote awareness of the services the Office of 
the National Ombudsman provides, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1152

  At the request of Mr. Merkley, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1152, a bill to create 
protections for depository institutions that provide financial services 
to cannabis-related businesses, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1172

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the names of the Senator from 
Michigan (Ms. Stabenow) and the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. Baldwin) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1172, a bill to impose sanctions with 
respect to foreign persons responsible for gross violations of 
internationally recognized human rights against lesbian, gay, bisexual, 
and transgender (LGBT) individuals, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1182

  At the request of Mr. Young, the names of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
Collins), the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Thune), the Senator from 
Oklahoma (Mr. Inhofe) and the Senator from Texas (Mr. Cornyn) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1182, a bill to require the Secretary of the 
Treasury to mint commemorative coins in recognition of the 100th 
anniversary of The American Legion.


                                S. 1270

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Ms. Cantwell) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1270, a bill to direct 
the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy to carry 
out programs and activities to ensure that Federal science agencies and 
institutions of higher education receiving Federal research and 
development funding are fully engaging their entire talent pool, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1292

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1292, a bill 
to amend the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to monitor 
and combat anti-Semitism globally, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1311

  At the request of Mr. Cornyn, the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mrs. Capito) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1311, a bill to 
provide assistance in abolishing human trafficking in the United 
States.


                                S. 1328

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Menendez) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1328, a bill to extend 
the protections of the Fair Housing Act to persons suffering 
discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1357

  At the request of Ms. Baldwin, the name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
Brown) was added as a cosponsor of S.

[[Page S3608]]

1357, a bill to amend title XIX of the Social Security Act to provide a 
standard definition of therapeutic family care services in Medicaid.


                                S. 1369

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. Durbin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1369, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to establish an excise tax on certain 
prescription drugs which have been subject to a price spike, and for 
other purposes.


                              S.J. RES. 46

  At the request of Mr. Daines, the name of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S.J. Res. 46, a joint 
resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United 
States authorizing the Congress to prohibit the physical desecration of 
the flag of the United States.


                            S. CON. RES. 15

  At the request of Ms. Warren, the name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. McCaskill) was added as a cosponsor of S. Con. Res. 15, a 
concurrent resolution expressing support for the designation of October 
28, 2017, as ``Honoring the Nation's First Responders Day''.


                              S. RES. 162

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 162, a resolution 
reaffirming the commitment of the United States to promoting religious 
freedom, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



