

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 97 (Wednesday, June 7, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3327-S3328]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. PAUL:
       S. 1298. A bill to modify the criteria used by the Corps of 
     Engineers to dredge small ports; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mrs. Capito):
       S. 1299. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to reduce the occurrence of diabetes in Medicare 
     beneficiaries by extending coverage under Medicare for 
     medical nutrition therapy services to such beneficiaries with 
     pre-diabetes or with risk factors for developing type 2 
     diabetes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. PAUL:
       S. 1300. A bill to prohibit the indefinite detention of 
     persons by the United States, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. NELSON (for himself, Mr. Heller, and Mr. 
             Schumer):
       S. 1301. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
     Act to provide for the distribution of additional residency 
     positions, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. MORAN (for himself, Mr. Udall, Mr. Blunt, Mr. 
             Heinrich, Mr. Roberts, and Mr. Nelson):

[[Page S3328]]

  

       S. 1302. A bill to provide for the conversion of temporary 
     judgeships to permanent judgeships, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Mr. Franken, Mr. 
             Brown, Mr. Sanders, Mr. Wyden, and Mr. Blumenthal):
       S. 1303. A bill to prohibit discrimination in adoption or 
     foster care placements based on the sexual orientation, 
     gender identity, or marital status of any prospective 
     adoptive or foster parent, or the sexual orientation or 
     gender identity of the child involved; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Mr. ROBERTS (for himself, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Brown, 
             and Mr. Casey):
       S. 1304. A bill to amend part B of title XVIII of the 
     Social Security Act to exclude customary prompt pay discounts 
     from manufacturers to wholesalers from the average sales 
     price for drugs and biologicals under Medicare, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself and Ms. Heitkamp):
       S. 1305. A bill to provide U.S. Customs and Border 
     Protection with adequate flexibility in its employment 
     authorities; to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
     Governmental Affairs.
           By Mr. LEAHY:
       S. 1306. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to establish refundable tax credits for expenses relating to 
     ensuring safety and accessibility in historic structures; to 
     the Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Ms. Hassan, Ms. Warren, 
             Ms. Harris, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Leahy, and Mrs. 
             Gillibrand):
       S. 1307. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to expand eligibility to receive refundable tax credits for 
     coverage under a qualified health plan; to the Committee on 
     Finance.
           By Ms. STABENOW (for herself and Mr. Peters):
       S. 1308. A bill to increase authorized funding for the Soo 
     Locks; to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself and Mr. Thune):
       S. 1309. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act to permit American Indian tribal councils to enter into 
     agreements with the Commissioner of Social Security to obtain 
     social security coverage for services performed by tribal 
     council members; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. ROUNDS (for himself, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Tester, 
             Mr. Hoeven, Mr. Donnelly, and Mr. Kennedy):
       S. 1310. A bill to amend the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act 
     of 1975 to specify which depository institutions are subject 
     to the maintenance of records and disclosure requirements of 
     such Act, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. 
             Grassley, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Corker, Mr. Brown, Mr. 
             Heller, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Coons, Mr. Hatch, 
             Mr. Burr, and Ms. Heitkamp):
       S. 1311. A bill to provide assistance in abolishing human 
     trafficking in the United States; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. 
             Cornyn, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Corker, and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 1312. A bill to prioritize the fight against human 
     trafficking in the United States; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Mrs. Gillibrand, and Mrs. 
             Capito):
       S. 1313. A bill to reauthorize the National Flood Insurance 
     Program, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Banking, 
     Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. KAINE (for himself and Mr. Warner):
       S. 1314. A bill to amend the Natural Gas Act to bolster 
     fairness and transparency in consideration of interstate 
     natural gas pipelines, to provide for greater public input 
     opportunities, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Commerce, Science, and Transportation.

                          ____________________



