

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 108 (Friday, June 23, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 108 (Friday, June 23, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H5131-H5134]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                 PAKISTAN IS PLAYING THE UNITED STATES

  The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Faso). Under the Speaker's announced 
policy of January 3, 2017, the Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Poe) for 30 minutes.
  Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, when our forces invaded Afghanistan in 
2001, the goal was simple: remove the terrorist group, the Taliban 
government that sheltered the plotters of the 9/11 attacks on America, 
and destroy al-Qaida, a terrorist group. This was a NATO operation.
  A little history is in order.
  The United States was attacked. The member nations of NATO agreed 
that this was an attack on one nation, and NATO agreed to retaliate to 
the terrorist attack under article 5 of the NATO agreement. Article 5 
has been talked about recently in the press.
  So these 28 nations, NATO, went into Afghanistan, a haven for 
terrorists who sought to attack and kill Americans. That was 16 years 
ago. This is the longest war in American history, and yet it is still 
going on.
  Let's examine how all of this is taking place and center on one 
nation, Pakistan, and their role in all of this.
  The Taliban, since that attack, has waged an insurgency in 
Afghanistan, a neighbor to Pakistan, and destabilized the country, 
creating a perfect condition for terrorists to exploit in Afghanistan 
and spread that terrorist activity to other parts of the world.
  The Taliban and al-Qaida have launched many of their attacks in 
Afghanistan from their neighbor, Pakistan. Recently, a Taliban sneak 
attack killed more than 160 Afghan soldiers, prompting the defense 
minister and the army chief of staff to resign.
  The Taliban, a terrorist group, doesn't just stage attacks. They 
seize territory. The Special Inspector General for Afghan 
Reconstruction said, in January, that 172 Afghan districts are 
controlled, influenced, and contested by the Taliban.
  Al-Qaida has a long history and loyalty to the Taliban--two terrorist 
groups working together. Osama bin Laden swore his allegiance to the 
Taliban's leader, Mullah Omar, even before the 9/11 attack on the 
United States.
  When bin Laden was killed in Pakistan, Ayman al-Zawahiri renewed that 
oath and cemented ties between al-Qaida and the Taliban. Wherever the 
Taliban is, you will see that al-Qaida is not far behind.
  Since 2010, the United States incorrectly claimed that al-Qaida had 
just a little, small presence in the country, limited to only 50 or 100 
fighters. Well, we know now that is absolutely incorrect.
  Then, in 2015, the shocking U.S. raid in Afghanistan uncovered a 
massive al-Qaida training camp for terrorists, rounding up over 150 al-
Qaida terrorist activity individuals. This was more fighters in one 
raid than the U.S. claimed existed in the entire country.
  By the end of last year, U.S. officials announced that 250 al-Qaida 
terrorists were killed or captured in 2016.
  The point here is that United States intelligence has been wrong 
about the activity of terrorists in Pakistan and in Afghanistan, but we 
are getting it right now.
  Along with al-Qaida in Afghanistan, we have another terrorist group--
I should have brought a chart to list all of these--the Haqqani 
Network.
  Who are these folks?
  It is another terrorist group linked to al-Qaida and the Taliban. The 
Haqqani Network is responsible for more American deaths in the region 
than any of the other terrorist groups that I have already mentioned.

                              {time}  1200

  The Haqqani Network attacks inside Afghanistan, and they have been 
directly traced back to Pakistan. All roads to terror lead to Pakistan.
  In fact, in 2011, Admiral Mike Mullen, Chairman of the U.S. Joint 
Chiefs of Staff, testified to the Senate, ``the Haqqani Network acts as 
a veritable arm of Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency.'' 
What is that? That is the military arm of the Pakistan Government 
working with terrorist groups throughout the world.
  The truth is, Pakistan has ties to about every terrorist group in 
Afghanistan, and we know that the Taliban terrorist group is based out 
of Pakistan.
  It came as no surprise that when the U.S. drone strike killed the 
leader of the Taliban in 2016, guess where he was? He was in Pakistan 
hiding out.
  There is a laundry list of evidence of Pakistan's support for 
terrorist groups, and I think a little more history is in order because 
this activity by Pakistan has been going on for years and has been 
below the radar. So let's just list some of the counts of the 
indictment against Pakistan and their terrorist activity.
  Let's go back to 1980. Pakistan actively assisted countries like 
North Korea, Iran, and Libya in their efforts to build a nuclear 
weapon.
  Now, where are we today?
  Iran, the number one state sponsor of terrorism in the world, got 
some of its nuclear ability from Pakistan. North Korea, on the other 
side of the globe, guess what, they are developing nuclear capability, 
and we can trace some of their roots for their science back to 
Pakistan.
  Since 1980, Pakistan has provided a safe haven and support, as I 
mentioned, for the Haqqani Network. The Haqqani Network operates many 
places in the world, including Lebanon, a threat to Israel.
  Since the 1980s, Pakistan has hosted multiple madrassas that 
indoctrinate thousands of Pakistani young who join radical groups. That 
is a nice way of saying terrorist groups.
  One Pakistan madrassa, which receives millions of dollars in state 
funding, has so many prominent terrorists in its alumni that it has the 
name of the University of Jihad.
  I will continue. Since 1990, Pakistan has supported terrorist groups 
in Kashmir, like the Lashkar-e-Taiba, called the LeT, and other 
terrorist groups in its proxy war with India. These groups have carried 
out attacks inside India, such as the 2001 attack against the Indian 
Parliament.
  Since the 1990s, Pakistan has allowed those terrorist groups like the 
LeT to openly fundraise in the country of Pakistan. Beginning in the 
1990s, Pakistan provided training, advisers, intelligence, and material 
support for the Afghan Taliban, a specific terrorist group that 
operates in Afghanistan based in Pakistan.
  Pakistan had forged the alliance between the al-Qaida and the Taliban 
before 9/11, and Hamid Gul, the former head of Pakistan's ISI, is 
called the father of the Taliban.
  Pakistani nuclear scientists met with senior al-Qaida--this is a 
terrorist group--leadership in 1998, to discuss the terrorist group's 
desire to acquire nuclear technology.
  In 1998, several Pakistani officers were killed in an al-Qaida 
training camp by the United States. Well, what were they doing there? 
They were training the al-Qaida in terrorist activities. This was a 
retaliation by the U.S. for the Africa Embassy bombings.
  In 2001, Pakistan ISI helped revive the Afghan Taliban after it was 
defeated by the United States in the Northern Alliance. While Pakistan 
is fighting the Pakistani Taliban, it allows the Afghan Taliban, or 
what it refers to as the good Taliban, to operate freely in its 
territory.
  Let me try to explain this. There is the Pakistani Taliban. It 
operates in Pakistan. The Pakistan Government goes after those people 
because they are causing crimes in Pakistan. But there is the Afghan 
Taliban that operates out of Pakistan that is supported by ISI and 
works in Afghanistan to kill NATO forces, including Americans. Pakistan 
says: oh, we are after terrorists. We are going after them. They are

[[Page H5132]]

only going after those terrorists that operate in their country against 
Pakistanis, not terrorist groups that operate in other parts of the 
world against Americans.
  After the U.S. invasion of Afghanistan in 2001, Osama bin Laden and 
many senior al-Qaida leaders fled to Pakistan. Many of them are still 
there. Pakistan facilitated arms purchases and foreign fighter flows 
for al-Qaida as the war continued.
  Since 2004, eight major terrorist plots against Western countries 
were planned in Pakistan.
  In 2008, the GAO--that is the folks who take care of our money, or at 
least try to track it--found that the Pakistan Government may have 
falsified claimed costs for providing support to the United States-led 
military operations. What does that mean?
  We give to the Pakistan Government to help their military supposedly 
go after terrorists, and they give us back vouchers to say: well, this 
is what we did. Well, our government went through these vouchers and 
found out that Pakistan lied about this. They were asking for money for 
an activity that never occurred. So they tried to cheat the American 
public on these reimbursements. And there is more.
  In November 2008, LeT conducted the Mumbai attack in India that 
killed more than 160 people with Pakistani assistance. Remember, LeT is 
a terrorist group.
  In 2009, a Taliban leader, who had begun peace negotiations with the 
Afghan Government to stop the killing and the war, was arrested by 
Pakistan authorities for negotiating a peace talk because Pakistan did 
not want and does not want peace in Afghanistan.
  In 2010, Pakistani intelligence is believed to have leaked the 
identity of an American CIA intelligence chief based in Pakistan. Of 
course, he had to flee the country.
  In 2010, Pakistan closed the NATO supply route in Afghanistan for one 
week in response to NATO's helicopter strike that killed three 
Pakistani soldiers.

  Documents leaked in 2010 revealed direct meetings between ISI and the 
Taliban to organize and orchestrate attacks on American soldiers in 
Afghanistan. That was in 2010.
  I will continue. The terrorist perpetrator of the 2010 attempted car 
bombings in Times Square, that is in the United States, was known to 
have undergone weapons training in Pakistan.
  In 2011, Osama bin Laden, we all know who he was, the number one 
terrorist in world history, well, he was found and killed in Abbottabad 
outside of Pakistan's version of West Point. In other words, you have a 
military installation, you have Osama bin Laden hiding in his big old 
home there, and the Pakistanis had been hiding him out. He was found 
there, Americans went and took him out, didn't tell the Pakistani 
Government because they would have moved him again.
  We have evidence that Pakistan supports terrorism. What happened was, 
Pakistan scrambled American-made jets to go after the Americans who 
took out the Taliban. Fortunately, the Americans were able to get away 
and they were not attacked by the Pakistan Government.
  To show how supportive Pakistan is, one of our helicopters, you may 
remember, had stealth on one of its rotors. Well, it crashed there, and 
they turned that evidence over to the Chinese and let them take 
whatever evidence they wanted to show the stealth in that helicopter.
  Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask you how much time I have left.
  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Texas has 17 minutes 
remaining in his Special Order.
  Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, thank you.
  In 2011, Pakistan jailed Dr. Afridi, who helped the United States 
track down Osama bin Laden, and he is still in jail.
  So Pakistan claims that they are a help to the U.S. in tracking down 
terrorism in the world, but they are not. The evidence shows the 
difference. Whose side is Pakistan really on?
  After the 2011 raid to kill Osama bin Laden, Pakistan, as I said, 
invited the Chinese to inspect the wreckage on the stealth helicopter 
that the U.S. forces left behind. If people are allies of the U.S., 
they don't turn over technology to China.
  Once again in 2011, Pakistan ISI poisoned CIA Chief Mark Kelton 
following the Osama bin Laden raid.
  In 2011, Pakistan shelling killed 42 Afghanistan civilians. Pakistan 
is notorious for its blasphemy laws which are used to persecute 
numerous minorities, including Christians. Asia Bibi, a Pakistan 
Christian mother of five, was sentenced to death for blasphemy in 2011.
  Pakistan launched counterterrorism raids in 2014 into the Federally 
Administered Tribal Areas, yet turned a blind eye to the Haqqani 
Network and the Afghanistan Taliban operatives in the area.
  In September of 2016, Pakistani terrorists attacked an Indian 
military base in Kashmir, killing 17 Indian soldiers. Indian officials 
say the terrorists were from a group backed by the Pakistani ISI and 
were using weapons with Pakistani markings.
  In 2017, Pakistani cross-border shelling forced hundreds of 
Afghanistan villagers to flee their homes and further strained 
relations between Afghanistan and Pakistan. Well, no kidding.
  Let me give you some other evidence, Mr. Speaker, and let me make 
this clear. The issue here is not the people of Pakistan. The issue is 
not Americans of Pakistani descent. Our quarrel and our issue is not 
with those folks. I represent a lot of Pakistani Americans. Good folks. 
Hardworking individuals.
  The issue is with the United States' relationship with the Government 
of Pakistan that is playing the United States. Recently, before the 
United Nations Security Council, H.E. Mahmoud Saikal, Ambassador, 
Permanent Representative from Afghanistan spoke to the U.N. He has an 
excellent speech. The speech is Afghanistan's relationship with 
Pakistan.
  I am not going to read his entire speech, but I do want to make a 
couple of comments from his point of view about Pakistan and their 
terrorist activity.
  He says: ``In recent months, dozens of terrorist attacks across 
Afghanistan have claimed scores of innocent lives. In January, three 
simultaneous terrorist attacks in Kabul, Kandahar, and Helmand 
provinces killed and maimed over 160, including six UAE diplomats. In 
February, the Supreme Court, our symbol of justice, was attacked, 
causing numerous fatalities. Last week, two separate attacks in the 
heart of Kabul killed many civilians. Finally, just two days ago, 
Afghanistan's largest hospital was attacked, leaving over 140 killed 
and wounded, many of whom were doctors, nurses, and patients. The 
Taliban''--terrorist group--``have claimed responsibility for most of 
these attacks, but regardless of whose names are being labeled on these 
attacks, our own investigations have clearly established that they were 
generally plotted beyond our frontiers,'' namely, in Pakistan.
  I include in the Record the entire speech of the Ambassador to the 
U.N.

 United Nations Security Council Debate on the Situation in Afghanistan

   H.E. Mahmoud Saikal, Ambassador, Permanent Representative of the 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan to the United Nations, March 10, 2017, 
                               New York)

       Thank you, Mr. President. Let me congratulate the United 
     Kingdom on its leadership of the Council this month. I thank 
     the Secretary General, Antonio Guterres, for presenting his 
     first report on the situation in Afghanistan. Also, allow me 
     to thank the SRSG, Ambassador Tadamichi Yamamoto, and 
     Afghanistan's Independent Human Rights Commissioner, Dr. Sima 
     Samar, for their briefings.
       Given the severity of the situation in my country, I would 
     like to dedicate my statement today to the challenging 
     security situation, hidden agendas, the peace process and the 
     ever-increasing necessity for regional and global 
     cooperation.
       Mr. President, in recent months, dozens of terrorist 
     attacks across Afghanistan have claimed scores of innocent 
     lives. In January, three simultaneous terrorist attacks in 
     Kabul, Kandahar, and Helmand provinces killed and maimed over 
     160, including six UAE diplomats. In February, the Supreme 
     Court, our symbol of justice, was attacked, causing numerous 
     fatalities. Last week, two separate attacks in the heart of 
     Kabul killed many civilians. Finally, just two days ago 
     Afghanistan's largest hospital was attacked, leaving over 140 
     killed and wounded, many of whom were doctors, nurses, and 
     patients. The Taliban have claimed responsibility for most of 
     these attacks, but regardless of whose names are being 
     labeled on these attacks, our own investigations have clearly 
     established that they were generally plotted beyond our 
     frontiers, on the other side of the Durand Line. This, Mr. 
     President, is the fundamental factor which needs to be 
     addressed.

[[Page H5133]]

       The UN Security Council issued prompt statements condemning 
     these attacks in strongest terms, for which we are thankful. 
     The statements underlined--and I quote: ``the need to bring 
     perpetrators, organizers, financiers and sponsors of these 
     reprehensible acts of terrorism to justice''. It also urged 
     ``all States, in accordance with their obligations under 
     international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, 
     to cooperate actively with the Afghan authorities in this 
     regard.'' This is indeed what Afghanistan has been asking for 
     many years. My Government and people would like to know why, 
     after countless terrorist atrocities and specific Security 
     Council statements condemning them, we are still witness to 
     impunity for perpetrators and orchestrators of endless 
     violence?
       Mr. President, let me be very clear. The conflict in our 
     country is not homegrown, as some desperately and deceptively 
     try to portray. On the contrary, it is the nexus of illicit 
     narcotics, violent extremism, and state sponsorship of 
     terrorism with regional dimensions and global consequences. 
     Tragically, it has morphed into an undeclared war by a 
     neighboring state that has for many years, and still 
     continues to coordinate, facilitate, and orchestrate violence 
     through proxy forces and more than 20 terrorist networks. 
     These groups benefit from a full-fledged external 
     infrastructure to keep Afghanistan off-balance for motives 
     that are inconsistent with our desire to live in a peaceful 
     and prospering region.
       In earlier statements to this Council, we have emphasized, 
     time and again, on Pakistani actions that sustain terrorist 
     activities in our country. Today, let me quote leading 
     Pakistani officials themselves. General Pervez Musharraf, who 
     led Pakistan for eight years as President, proudly commented 
     in a 2015 interview with The Guardian newspaper that 
     ``Pakistan's Inter Services Intelligence (ISI) had given 
     birth to the Taliban to counter Indian action against 
     Pakistan''. Last year, Mr. Sartaj Aziz, Pakistan Prime 
     Minister's Adviser on Foreign Affairs, went on record to say 
     that Taliban leaders reside in Pakistan and that they have 
     influence over them. A couple of weeks ago, Mr. Ashraf 
     Jehangir Qazi, former ambassador of Pakistan to the US, 
     Russia, China, and India and UN SRSG to Iraq and Sudan, wrote 
     in the Herald Magazine of Pakistan: ``after the Soviet defeat 
     and withdrawal, we (wittingly or unwittingly) unleashed a 
     ruinous civil war and imposed a barbaric and medieval Taliban 
     upon the hapless Afghan people.'' His words are but 
     confirmation of the truth that ``Pakistan talks one policy, 
     but walks the other''.
       Mr. Husain Haqqani, another former Ambassador of Pakistan 
     to the US and Sri Lanka, categorizes in clear terms, in a NYT 
     2013 article, the links between Pakistan's state apparatus 
     and the Taliban over time, and mentions in the context of 
     peace talks that ``the Taliban and their Pakistani mentors 
     have hardly changed their arguments or their tendency to 
     fudge facts''. These quotes and admissions that I just read 
     were not ``rhetoric from Kabul'' or ``blame game'' as often 
     claimed by a known member state. This was Pakistan talking!
       Mr. President, against this backdrop, in February, a series 
     of unfortunate terrorist attacks in Pakistan killed dozens 
     and wounded many more innocent men, women, and children. As 
     is the case, Afghans always share the pain and anguish of our 
     Pakistani brothers and sisters. However, the Government of 
     Pakistan, immediately and without any regard for an 
     investigative process or clear facts, blamed Afghanistan for 
     the attacks and resorted to increased breaches of our 
     territorial integrity, the closing of the main border 
     crossings, blockading trade and transit, and harassing our 
     nationals traveling to or living in their country. Such 
     measures constitute a clear violation of principles of WTO 
     and the rights of land locked countries, including their 
     access to sea.
       From January till today, we recorded at least 59 instances 
     of violations of Afghan territory by Pakistan military 
     forces, including three violations of our air space, over 
     1375 cross-frontier artillery shellings that caused dozens of 
     casualties, displacement of 450 families in the middle of 
     cold winter in our eastern provinces, burning of our forests, 
     illegal construction of infrastructure near the frontier 
     region, and hostile maneuvering of tanks and heavy weaponry.

  Mr. POE of Texas. I will just make one more comment on the speech. 
The Ambassador says: ``Pakistan talks one policy, but walks the 
other.''
  I will continue. The World Muhajir Congress has written a letter to 
the United States Congress. Who are these folks? Well, they represent 
the views and interests of the Muhajirs. They are decendents of Muslims 
who migrated from India to Pakistan at the time of the partition of 
India in 1947.

                              {time}  1215

  They write a letter, and the title of their letter is: ``World 
Muhajir Congress request U.S. Congress to cut off military aid to 
Pakistan.''
  They go into detail talking about the terrorist activity of the 
Government of Pakistan, and not only in Pakistan, but in borders across 
the world. They ``request Trump administration and the U.S. Congress to 
cut off military aid to Pakistan. Pakistan army and intelligence agency 
ISI is mainly using this military aid''--American military aid--``to 
kill innocent Muhajirs, Baloch, and Pashtoons. The double game of 
Pakistan's security establishment with U.S. administration must come to 
an end, which has put lives of U.S. and NATO soldiers in danger in 
Afghanistan.''
  Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record the letter.

              [From World Muhajir Congress, June 15, 2017]

 World Muhajir Congress Request US Congress To Cut Off Military Aid to 
                                Pakistan

       World Muhajir Congress represents the views and interests 
     of Muhajirs--descendants of those Muslims who migrated from 
     India to Pakistan at the time of the Partition of India in 
     1947 at appropriate international forums.
       Indeed, our forefathers had created Pakistan as a homeland 
     for Muslims in India primarily to safeguards their political 
     and economic interests. However, their idea of Pakistan 
     envisaged a secular state where other religious minorities 
     would be guaranteed equal rights and complete religious 
     freedom. The founder of Pakistan Mohammad Ali Jinnah--known 
     as Quaid e Azam--left no doubts about his vision for Pakistan 
     when he chose a number of non-Muslims in the first Cabinet 
     for Pakistan. In his address to the First Constituent 
     Assembly of Pakistan, Mr Jinnah made his views abundantly 
     clear when he said, ``in course of time Hindus would cease to 
     be Hindus and Muslims would cease to be Muslims, not in the 
     religious sense, because that is the personal faith of each 
     individual, but in the political sense as citizens of the 
     State.''
       Unfortunately, the British Raj had left behind a huge 
     Indian army at the time of Partition that was mainly 
     comprised of Punjabi Muslims. This Punjabi Army soon took 
     control of every major institution in Pakistan and never let 
     the true democracy flourish. Protecting the interests of 
     Punjabis has been the primary mission of this Army since the 
     creation of Pakistan, even if it had to at the cost of 
     national interests. Denial of basic constitutional rights to 
     majority Bengali population and subsequent disintegration of 
     Pakistan's Bengali-majority East Pakistan is just one 
     example.
       In the last few decades, Pakistan's Punjabi-dominated 
     security establishment has blatantly used religion, Islam, as 
     its major tool to perpetuate its domination over other ethnic 
     groups in Pakistan, Muhajirs, Balochs and Pashtoons in 
     particular. The Army itself has gradually become highly 
     radicalized and seems obsessed with the idea of dominating 
     the entire region. The most alarming trend in the last three 
     decades, however, has been the creation and blatant use of 
     `religious proxies' by Pakistan Army to promote its sinister 
     agenda of Punjabi dominance over Pakistan as well as the 
     region.
       Jihadi terrorist outfits created by Pakistan Army have 
     caused havoc in the last three decades both inside and 
     outside Pakistan. Even though hundreds of thousands of 
     Pakistanis have died as a result of attacks carried out by 
     these ruthless proxies of Pakistan's security establishment, 
     the targets of these terrorist outfits have never been 
     confined to Pakistan and pretty much every country in the 
     region has suffered at the hands of these terror groups.
       Whether it is the world's ``most wanted'' man Osama bin 
     Laden or the chief of Taliban Mullah Omar; whether it is al-
     Qaeda's ideological founder Ayman al-Zawahiri or TTP Amir 
     Mullah Mansoor Akhtar or 9/11 mastermind Khalid Shaikh 
     Mohammad, they all have lived and freely operated from 
     Pakistan. It is not even remotely possible that such 
     notorious mass murderers could have lived and operated from 
     Pakistani soil without the overt or covert support from ISI. 
     In fact, thugs of every fanatic religious outfit are still 
     freely operating in Pakistan, particularly in Karachi, very 
     often under the overt protection of Paramilitary Rangers. We 
     have video evidence confirming that militants of banned 
     extremist religious outfits are allowed to freely collect 
     donations in Karachi to wage ``Jihad against America.''
       The region as well as the world has suffered enough due to 
     the mindless policies and treachery of Pakistan's Punjabi-
     dominated security establishment. In fact, ethnic minorities 
     of Pakistan have been the biggest victim of Pakistan Army and 
     its intelligence agencies' ruthless pro-Punjabi policies. 
     Over 20 thousand Muhajirs have been killed by Pakistan's 
     state agencies since 1992 alone. Two federal governments in 
     Pakistan were deposed on the charges of extrajudicial 
     killings of Muhajirs in Karachi but none of the culprits was 
     ever punished. Tens of thousands of Balochs have been killed 
     by Pakistan's security agencies in the country's largest 
     Balochistan province. Hundreds of ethnic Pashtoons too have 
     either been killed and injured or made homeless by Pakistan 
     Army in the last few years under the garb of security 
     operations in the country's northern areas.
       Pakistan Army and ISI are actively silencing every sane and 
     secular voice in Pakistan and are supporting, arming and 
     training every jihadi terrorist outfit under the sun. In 
     recent days, General Janjua, the former Crops Commander of 
     Balochistan, now the country's security czar, has facilitated 
     legislation that now allows graduates of religious

[[Page H5134]]

     seminaries (Madrassahs) to receive Commission in Pakistan 
     Army. The previous Director General of ISI (now the head of 
     Pakistan's National Defense University) General Rizwan Akhtar 
     has even proposed to `incorporate militants belonging to 
     banned extremist religious outfits into paramilitary forces.'
       The region is burning due to the highly unprofessional and 
     irresponsible policies and acts of Pakistan's military 
     establishment and ISI. The entire world is suffering. As the 
     British Prime Minister Mrs. Theresa May said following the 
     most recent terrorist attack in London ``enough is enough.'' 
     It is about time for the world to act against this madness 
     and put its foot down.
       World Muhajir Congress sincerely request Trump 
     Administration and US Congress to cut off military aid to 
     Pakistan. Pakistan Army and intelligence agency ISI is mainly 
     using this military aid to kill innocent Muhajirs, Baloch and 
     Pashtoons. The double game of Pakistan's security 
     establishment with US administration must come to an end 
     which has put lives of US and NATO soldiers in danger in 
     Afghanistan.

  Mr. POE of Texas. So what does all this mean?
  I have given 20 or 30 enumerated counts of an indictment against 
Pakistan, alleging them of supporting terrorism in the world.
  What can we do about it?
  Pakistan is not an ally of the United States. But the United States, 
every year, gives millions of dollars to Pakistan. Congress has even 
brought this up before, has tried to cut some of that money off. It has 
passed the House, but it has never passed and become law. And we 
continue to give them money.
  The United States does not, and should not, continue to give Pakistan 
money because the money we give them goes to ISI, and that money goes 
to support terrorist activity in Afghanistan that kills Americans.
  Why are we doing this?
  But we continue to do it, for some reason that I think is absurd.
  So the first thing we need to do is cut off the aid to Pakistan. We 
don't need to pay them to kill us; they will support killing Americans 
on their own. Cut off the aid.
  The second thing we do is to label Pakistan a state sponsor of 
terrorism. That is what they are: a state sponsor of terrorism. 
Congress needs to label them and make that designation so they suffer 
the consequences for their terrorist mischief throughout the world.
  And the third thing we do is we need to remove and revoke their major 
non-NATO ally status. That is a fancy word for: because Pakistan is a 
major non-NATO ally, they get certain benefits, militarily, that other 
countries don't get.
  Revoke that. Quit giving them military aid. Quit giving them money. 
Designate them as a state sponsor of terrorism, and remove the major 
non-NATO ally status against Pakistan. There needs to be consequences 
for this long history, that most Americans are not aware of, where 
Pakistan says one thing and, like the ambassador said, does something 
else; and those consequences need to come down to get attention.
  The longest war in American history continues today, and it is a war 
supposedly against terrorism. But Afghanistan still is a hotbed because 
of what takes place and supported from Pakistan. The Afghan Government 
knows it, we know it, and the Pakistan Government knows it.
  So there must be consequences. I think Pakistan is found guilty of 
supporting terrorism, and there should be action by the United States 
immediately to do these three things.
  And that is just the way it is.
  Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

                          ____________________



