

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 91 (Thursday, May 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3213-S3215]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 54

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. Coons) was added as a cosponsor of S. 54, a bill to prohibit the 
creation of an immigration-related registry program that classifies 
people on the basis of religion, race, age, gender, ethnicity, national 
origin, nationality, or citizenship.


                                 S. 97

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 97, a bill to enable 
civilian research and development of advanced nuclear energy 
technologies by private and public institutions, to expand theoretical 
and practical knowledge of nuclear physics, chemistry, and materials 
science, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 231

  At the request of Mr. Paul, the name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Wicker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 231, a bill to implement 
equal protection under the 14th Amendment to the Constitution of the 
United States for the right to life of each born and preborn human 
person.


                                 S. 263

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 263, a bill to facilitate 
efficient State implementation of ground-level ozone standards, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 299

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr. 
Perdue) was added as a cosponsor of S. 299, a bill to require the 
appropriation of funds to use a fee, fine, penalty, or proceeds from a 
settlement received by a Federal agency, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 301

  At the request of Mr. Lankford, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 301, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to prohibit governmental discrimination 
against providers of health services that are not involved in abortion.


                                 S. 341

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. Casey) was added as a cosponsor of S. 341, a bill to 
provide for

[[Page S3214]]

congressional oversight of actions to waive, suspend, reduce, provide 
relief from, or otherwise limit the application of sanctions with 
respect to the Russian Federation, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 369

  At the request of Mr. Casey, his name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
369, a bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to authorize the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in awarding a contract for the 
procurement of goods or services, to give a preference to offerors that 
employ veterans, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. Cochran) was added as a cosponsor of S. 407, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the railroad track 
maintenance credit.


                                 S. 413

  At the request of Mrs. Capito, the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Mr. King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 413, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to prohibit prescription drug plan 
sponsors and MA-PD organizations under the Medicare program from 
retroactively reducing payment on clean claims submitted by pharmacies.


                                 S. 424

  At the request of Mr. Booker, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 424, a bill to amend title 
5, United States Code, to include certain Federal positions within the 
definition of law enforcement officer for retirement purposes, and for 
other purposes.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the name of the Senator from Alaska 
(Ms. Murkowski) was added as a cosponsor of S. 445, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure more timely access to 
home health services for Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare 
program.


                                 S. 474

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) was added as a cosponsor of S. 474, a bill to condition 
assistance to the West Bank and Gaza on steps by the Palestinian 
Authority to end violence and terrorism against Israeli citizens.


                                 S. 515

  At the request of Mr. Casey, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 515, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Labor to maintain a publicly available list of all 
employers that relocate a call center overseas, to make such companies 
ineligible for Federal grants or guaranteed loans, and to require 
disclosure of the physical location of business agents engaging in 
customer service communications, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 540

  At the request of Mr. Thune, the name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
Risch) was added as a cosponsor of S. 540, a bill to limit the 
authority of States to tax certain income of employees for employment 
duties performed in other States.


                                 S. 568

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) was added as a cosponsor of S. 568, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to count a period of receipt of 
outpatient observation services in a hospital toward satisfying the 3-
day inpatient hospital requirement for coverage of skilled nursing 
facility services under Medicare.


                                 S. 623

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Cardin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 623, a bill to enhance the 
transparency and accelerate the impact of assistance provided under the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to promote quality basic education in 
developing countries, to better enable such countries to achieve 
universal access to quality basic education and improved learning 
outcomes, to eliminate duplication and waste, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 652

  At the request of Mr. Kaine, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 652, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to reauthorize a program for early detection, 
diagnosis, and treatment regarding deaf and hard-of-hearing newborns, 
infants, and young children.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the names of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) and the Senator from Indiana (Mr. Donnelly) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 654, a bill to revise section 48 of title 18, United 
States Code, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 692

  At the request of Mrs. Fischer, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Donnelly) was added as a cosponsor of S. 692, a bill to provide 
for integrated plan permits, to establish an Office of the Municipal 
Ombudsman, to promote green infrastructure, and to require the revision 
of financial capability guidance.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from South 
Carolina (Mr. Scott) was added as a cosponsor of S. 720, a bill to 
amend the Export Administration Act of 1979 to include in the 
prohibitions on boycotts against allies of the United States boycotts 
fostered by international governmental organizations against Israel and 
to direct the Export-Import Bank of the United States to oppose 
boycotts against Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 722

  At the request of Mr. Corker, the names of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. Strange) and the Senator from South Carolina (Mr. Scott) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 722, a bill to impose sanctions with respect 
to Iran in relation to Iran's ballistic missile program, support for 
acts of international terrorism, and violations of human rights, and 
for other purposes.


                                 S. 822

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
King) was added as a cosponsor of S. 822, a bill to amend the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
of 1980 to modify provisions relating to grants, and for other 
purposes.


                                 S. 872

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Mrs. Shaheen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 872, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to make permanent the 
extension of the Medicare-dependent hospital (MDH) program and the 
increased payments under the Medicare low-volume hospital program.


                                 S. 910

  At the request of Mr. Schumer, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Sanders) was added as a cosponsor of S. 910, a bill to prohibit 
discrimination against individuals with disabilities who need long-term 
services and supports, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 981

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mrs. Ernst) was added as a cosponsor of S. 981, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Energy to establish an energy efficiency materials pilot 
program.


                                S. 1002

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. Klobuchar) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1002, a bill to enhance 
the ability of community financial institutions to foster economic 
growth and serve their communities, boost small businesses, increase 
individual savings, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1035

  At the request of Mr. Heinrich, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1035, a bill to amend the 
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 with respect to the 
scope of employee pension benefit plans.


                                S. 1057

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1057, a bill to amend the 
Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and Control Act of 1998 to 
address harmful algal blooms, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1092

  At the request of Mr. Enzi, the names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
Merkley) and the Senator from Idaho (Mr. Crapo) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1092, a bill to protect the right of

[[Page S3215]]

law-abiding citizens to transport knives interstate, notwithstanding a 
patchwork of local and State prohibitions.


                                S. 1094

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. Enzi), the Senator from Illinois (Ms. Duckworth) and the Senator 
from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) were added as cosponsors of S. 1094, 
a bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the 
accountability of employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1122

  At the request of Mrs. Murray, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1122, a bill to amend 
the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 to clarify when the time 
period for the issuance of citations under such Act begins and to 
require a rule to clarify that an employer's duty to make and maintain 
accurate records of work-related injuries and illnesses is an ongoing 
obligation.


                                S. 1151

  At the request of Mrs. Ernst, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1151, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide a nonrefundable credit for 
working family caregivers.


                                S. 1169

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) and the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. 
Hassan) were added as cosponsors of S. 1169, a bill to amend title XIX 
of the Social Security Act to provide States with an option to provide 
medical assistance to individuals between the ages of 22 and 64 for 
inpatient services to treat substance use disorders at certain 
facilities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1191

  At the request of Mr. Grassley, the name of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Mr. Cassidy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1191, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to refine how Medicare 
pays for orthotics and prosthetics and to improve beneficiary 
experience and outcomes with orthotic and prosthetic care, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1196

  At the request of Mr. Sullivan, the names of the Senator from 
Missouri (Mr. Blunt), the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Inhofe), the 
Senator from Hawaii (Ms. Hirono), the Senator from Alaska (Ms. 
Murkowski), the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Roberts), the Senator from 
Alabama (Mr. Strange) and the Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Tillis) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1196, a bill to expand the capacity and 
capability of the ballistic missile defense system of the United 
States, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1227

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Ms. Baldwin) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1227, a bill to amend 
titles XIX and XXI of the Social Security Act to provide for 12-month 
continuous enrollment under Medicaid and the Children's Health 
Insurance Program, and for other purposes.


                              S. RES. 106

  At the request of Mr. Wicker, the name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 106, a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate to support the territorial integrity 
of Georgia.


                              S. RES. 139

  At the request of Mr. Wyden, the name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 139, a resolution 
condemning the Government of Iran's state-sponsored persecution of its 
Baha'i minority and its continued violation of the International 
Covenants on Human Rights.


                              S. RES. 168

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from Washington 
(Ms. Cantwell) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 168, a resolution 
supporting respect for human rights and encouraging inclusive 
governance in Ethiopia.


                              S. RES. 174

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. Boozman) was added as a cosponsor of S. Res. 174, a resolution 
recognizing the 100th anniversary of Lions Clubs International and 
celebrating the Lions Clubs International for a long history of 
humanitarian service.


                              S. RES. 176

  At the request of Mr. Schumer, the names of the Senator from New 
Jersey (Mr. Menendez), the Senator from Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal), 
the Senator from Oregon (Mr. Wyden), the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
Casey) and the Senator from Colorado (Mr. Bennet) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 176, a resolution commemorating the 50th 
anniversary of the reunification of Jerusalem.
  At the request of Mr. McConnell, the names of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds), the Senator from Florida (Mr. Rubio) and the 
Senator from Kansas (Mr. Moran) were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 
176, supra.
  At the request of Ms. Murkowski, her name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. Res. 176, supra.

                          ____________________



