

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 131 (Wednesday, August 2, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4757-S4758]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                       THE GREAT AMERICAN ECLIPSE

  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, today I wish to recognize the historic 
event of the Great American Eclipse that will cross the continental 
United States on August 21. That morning, the eclipse will first pass 
over my home State of Oregon, then sweep across the U.S., ending in 
South Carolina. Millions of people across Oregon and the country are 
planning on watching those few moments when the moon will cover the sun 
and everything will go dark.
  It has been 99 years since a total solar eclipse has occurred across 
the entire country, and whether someone is 5 or 95, this may be the 
only time they will ever see a total eclipse. It is truly a once-in-a-
lifetime event.
  This solar eclipse is a rare occurrence where the wonders of science 
will come right to the front doors of millions of people. That fact 
hasn't been lost on schools and science organizations throughout 
Oregon. Educators from the coastal areas of the State to the mountains 
of eastern Oregon have been working hard to use this eclipse as an 
opportunity to engage students in the areas of science, technology, 
engineering, and mathematics, commonly called STEM.
  One of the best science museums in the country, the Oregon Museum of 
Science Industry, OMSI, has planned an amazing viewing party, with the 
hope of engaging folks of all ages in the science behind the eclipse. 
Oregon native Don Pettit, who is a NASA astronaut, will even be there 
to share his experience of viewing eclipses from the International 
Space Station. Over the years, OMSI has been a leader in getting 
students excited about STEM fields. I am so glad the museum is using 
this eclipse as yet another opportunity to get communities involved in 
science.
  Universities throughout the State are also doing their part to ensure 
students and community members get the most out of the event. In 
Corvallis, Oregon State University is hosting a 3-day eclipse event, 
with astronomy exhibits and a series of science lectures. I also 
understand that Portland State University, with the help of NASA, will 
launch video cameras attached to high-altitude balloons, giving anyone 
the ability to tune in and watch a live stream of the eclipse. Programs 
like these are so important because they make scientific events more 
accessible to the younger generations.
  I also want to take a few moments today to recognize the local 
leaders,

[[Page S4758]]

first responders, and the National Guard who are working tirelessly to 
ensure that communities throughout the State enjoy the eclipse 
festivities safely. These public servants have been a shining light in 
making sure Oregonians and visitors alike have the best experience 
while viewing the solar eclipse.
  As the eclipse arcs across the country and folks from the West Coast 
to the East Coast don their eclipse glasses to look up at the darkened 
sun, it is my sincere hope that it ignites a ray of passion in students 
throughout the country to explore STEM fields more deeply.

                          ____________________



