

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 87 (Friday, May 19, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 87 (Friday, May 19, 2017)]
[House]
[Pages H4388-H4389]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                      PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

  Under clause 2 of rule XII, public bills and resolutions of the 
following titles were introduced and severally referred, as follows:

           By Mr. BARLETTA (for himself, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, 
             Mr. Shuster, and Mr. DeFazio):
       H.R. 2548. A bill to reauthorize the programs and 
     activities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency; to the 
     Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in 
     addition to the Committees on Natural Resources, and 
     Financial Services, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. COFFMAN (for himself and Mr. O'Rourke):
       H.R. 2549. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     make certain improvements in the administration of the 
     educational assistance programs of the Department of Veterans 
     Affairs, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for himself, Mrs. Black, 
             Mr. Welch, and Mr. Harper):
       H.R. 2550. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for an incremental expansion of 
     telehealth coverage under the Medicare program; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Mr. STIVERS (for himself and Ms. Sewell of Alabama):
       H.R. 2551. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to expand the exclusion for employer-provided 
     educational assistance and to expand the availability of the 
     student loan interest deduction; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Mr. MASSIE (for himself, Mr. Blum, Mr. Brat, Mr. 
             Bridenstine, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
             Gohmert, Mr. Knight, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, Mr. 
             Webster of Florida, and Mr. Biggs):
       H.R. 2552. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to repeal the inclusion in gross income of Social 
     Security benefits; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. BARR (for himself, Mr. Tipton, Mr. Rothfus, Mrs. 
             Love, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Duffy, Ms. Tenney, Mr. 
             Loudermilk, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Hultgren, Mr. Pittenger, 
             Mr. Emmer, Mr. Hollingsworth, Mr. Davidson, Mr. 
             Trott, and Mr. Williams):
       H.R. 2553. A bill to amend the Consumer Financial 
     Protection Act of 2010 to bring the Bureau of Consumer 
     Financial Protection into the regular appropriations process, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Financial 
     Services.
           By Mr. SOTO (for himself, Mrs. Murphy of Florida, Mrs. 
             Demings, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. Crist, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Lawson of Florida, and Ms. Wilson of 
             Florida):
       H.R. 2554. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to establish a program that automatically enrolls certain 
     community college graduates into 4-year public institutions 
     of higher education; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mrs. LOVE (for herself and Ms. Sinema):
       H.R. 2555. A bill to require the Secretary of Veterans 
     Affairs to ensure compliance of medical facilities of the 
     Department of Veterans Affairs with requirements relating to 
     the scheduling of appointments, to require appointment by the 
     President and confirmation by the Senate of certain health 
     care officials of the Department, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mrs. BLACK (for herself, Mr. Welch, Mr. Harper, Mr. 
             Thompson of California, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, and Ms. 
             Matsui):
       H.R. 2556. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to expand access to telehealth services, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
     in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period 
     to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
     for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. BUCSHON (for himself, Mr. Payne, Mr. Carson of 
             Indiana, Mr. Mullin, and Mr. Rush):
       H.R. 2557. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to provide for coverage under the Medicare 
     program of certain DNA Specimen Provenance Assay clinical 
     diagnostic laboratory tests; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
     for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
     each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within 
     the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. COLLINS of New York (for himself, Mr. Long, and 
             Mr. Peters):
       H.R. 2558. A bill to direct the Secretary of Health and 
     Human Services to issue guidance with respect to three-
     dimensional human tissue models, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. CROWLEY (for himself and Mr. Paulsen):
       H.R. 2559. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to treat bicycle sharing systems as mass transit 
     facilities for purposes of the qualified transportation 
     fringe; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
           By Mr. GAETZ (for himself, Mr. Soto, Mr. Francis Rooney 
             of Florida, Mr. Lawson of Florida, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. 
             Hastings, Mr. Dunn, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. 
             Rutherford, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Thomas J. Rooney of 
             Florida, Mr. Mast, and Mr. Yoho):
       H.R. 2560. A bill to amend the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
     Conservation and Management Act to encourage elimination of 
     lionfish from United States waters by allowing individuals to 
     exchange lionfish for tags authorizing fishing for certain 
     species in addition to the number of such species otherwise 
     authorized to be taken by such individuals, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Natural Resources.
           By Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH (for himself and Mr. Reichert):
       H.R. 2561. A bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
     permit uniformed law enforcement officers to carry agency-
     issued firearms in certain Federal facilities, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania:
       H.R. 2562. A bill to improve access to prescription drugs; 
     to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. LAWSON of Florida (for himself, Ms. Velazquez, 
             Mr. Espaillat, Ms. Adams, Ms. Clarke of New York, and 
             Mrs. Murphy of Florida):
       H.R. 2563. A bill to codify the Small Business 
     Administration's Entrepreneurial Education Initiative, and 
     for other purposes; to the Committee on Small Business.
           By Mr. LoBIONDO (for himself, Ms. Bordallo, Ms. 
             Gabbard, Mr. Jones, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Langevin, Mr. 
             Knight, Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr. Banks of 
             Indiana, and Mr. Gallagher):
       H.R. 2564. A bill to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
     require an annual report on the personnel, training, and 
     equipment needs of the non-federalized National Guard; to the 
     Committee on Armed Services.
           By Mr. LUETKEMEYER:
       H.R. 2565. A bill to require the use of replacement cost 
     value in determining the premium rates for flood insurance 
     coverage under the National Flood Insurance Act, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on Financial Services.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York (for herself and 
             Ms. Bonamici):
       H.R. 2566. A bill to direct the Federal Trade Commission to 
     prescribe rules prohibiting deceptive advertising of abortion 
     services; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York:
       H.R. 2567. A bill to establish certain duties for 
     pharmacies to ensure provision of Food and Drug 
     Administration-approved contraception, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. McKINLEY (for himself, Mr. Jenkins of West 
             Virginia, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, Mr. Murphy of 
             Pennsylvania, and Mr. Johnson of Ohio):
       H.R. 2568. A bill to direct the Secretary of Energy and the 
     Secretary of Commerce to conduct a study of the feasibility 
     of establishing an ethane storage and distribution hub in the 
     United States; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. PERLMUTTER (for himself and Mr. Gallagher):
       H.R. 2569. A bill to promote transparency in health care 
     pricing, and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
     and Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on Ways and 
     Means, and Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to 
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. POSEY:
       H.R. 2570. A bill to amend the Truth in Lending Act to 
     clarify that the points and fees in connection with a 
     mortgage loan do not include certain compensation amounts

[[Page H4389]]

     already taken into account in setting the interest rate on 
     such loan, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Financial Services.
           By Mr. POSEY (for himself and Mr. Bridenstine):
       H.R. 2571. A bill to amend title 51 of the United States 
     Code to improve the safety of commercial space flight 
     operations by authorizing the operation of aircraft with 
     experimental certificates carrying persons or property to 
     support research and training for space flight participants 
     and crew, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Science, Space, and Technology.
           By Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD (for herself, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. 
             Gallego, Ms. Moore, Ms. Barragan, Mr. Vargas, Mr. 
             Carbajal, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Castro of Texas, Ms. 
             Lofgren, Mrs. Torres, Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Sires, Mr. 
             Grijalva, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of 
             New Mexico, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Soto, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Mr. Correa, and Ms. Sanchez):
       H.R. 2572. A bill to establish humane practices for the 
     repatriation of aliens at the border, establish effective 
     standards for the treatment of certain aliens in the custody 
     of the Department of Homeland Security, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition 
     to the Committee on Homeland Security, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. RUIZ:
       H.R. 2573. A bill to amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 
     to authorize additional grant activities for Hispanic-serving 
     institutions; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. RUIZ:
       H.R. 2574. A bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to 
     help build a stronger health care workforce; to the Committee 
     on Energy and Commerce.
           By Mr. RUIZ (for himself, Mr. Meehan, Mr. Kelly of 
             Pennsylvania, Mr. Pascrell, and Ms. DelBene):
       H.R. 2575. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
     Security Act to establish a system to educate individuals 
     approaching Medicare eligibility, to simplify and modernize 
     the eligibility enrollment process, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. SERRANO:
       H.R. 2576. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to provide for the tax treatment of small business 
     start-up savings accounts; to the Committee on Ways and 
     Means.
           By Ms. SINEMA (for herself, Mr. Valadao, Mr. Amodei, 
             Mr. Polis, Mrs. Love, and Mr. Crist):
       H.R. 2577. A bill to establish an employment-based 
     immigrant visa for alien entrepreneurs who have received 
     significant capital from investors to establish a business in 
     the United States; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Ms. SLAUGHTER (for herself and Mr. Jones):
       H.R. 2578. A bill to amend the Employee Retirement Income 
     Security Act of 1974 and the National Labor Relations Act to 
     protect the health benefits of retirees, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Education and the Workforce.
           By Mr. TIBERI:
       H.R. 2579. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
     1986 to allow the premium tax credit with respect to 
     unsubsidized COBRA continuation coverage; to the Committee on 
     Ways and Means.
           By Mr. ZELDIN:
       H.R. 2580. A bill to simplify and improve the Federal 
     student loan program through income-contingent repayment to 
     provide stronger protections for borrowers, encourage 
     responsible borrowing, and save money for taxpayers; to the 
     Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to 
     the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be 
     subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
     consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
     jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
           By Mr. MARINO (for himself and Mr. McGovern):
       H. Con. Res. 58. Concurrent resolution expressing support 
     for a month to be known as Cystic Fibrosis Awareness Month, 
     and for other purposes; to the Committee on Energy and 
     Commerce.
           By Mr. DeFAZIO (for himself, Ms. Moore, Mr. Moulton, 
             Ms. Lee, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Brendan F. 
             Boyle of Pennsylvania, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mr. 
             Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Yarmuth, Ms. Michelle 
             Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Ryan of 
             Ohio, Mr. Kind, Mr. Deutch, Ms. Clarke of New York, 
             Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Nolan, Mrs. Dingell, 
             Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Castro of Texas, Ms. Matsui, Mr. 
             Nadler, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. 
             Raskin, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Crist, Mr. Loebsack, 
             Mr. McGovern, Ms. Bonamici, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. 
             Meehan, Mr. Perlmutter, Ms. Gabbard, Ms. McCollum, 
             and Mr. Keating):
       H. Res. 344. A resolution recognizing the contributions of 
     senior volunteers; to the Committee on Education and the 
     Workforce.
           By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr. Pallone, Mr. Neal, 
             Mr. Scott of Virginia, and Mr. Yarmuth):
       H. Res. 345. A resolution urging the President to 
     faithfully carry out the Affordable Care Act; to the 
     Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the 
     Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
     determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
     such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
     committee concerned.
           By Ms. DelBENE (for herself, Ms. Blunt Rochester, Mr. 
             Carbajal, Mr. O'Halleran, Ms. Adams, Ms. Wasserman 
             Schultz, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of 
             New York, Mr. Welch, Mr. Newhouse, and Mr. Panetta):
       H. Res. 346. A resolution expressing the sense of the House 
     of Representatives that specialty crops are a vital part of 
     agriculture in the United States, and that Congress should 
     fund programs that support specialty crops; to the Committee 
     on Agriculture.
           By Mr. QUIGLEY (for himself, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. 
             Butterfield, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Velazquez, Ms. 
             Barragan, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. 
             Schakowsky, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Ms. Norton, Mrs. 
             Dingell, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Bost, Mr. 
             Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Ted Lieu of 
             California, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Evans, Mr. Raskin, Ms. 
             Clarke of New York, and Mr. Rush):
       H. Res. 347. A resolution expressing support for 
     designation of May 2017 as ``National Brain Tumor Awareness 
     Month''; to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.

                          ____________________



