

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 88 (Monday, May 22, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 88 (Monday, May 22, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S3061]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                        ARUS SALES NOTIFICATION

  Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, section 36(b) of the Arms Export Control 
Act requires that Congress receive prior notification of certain 
proposed arms sales as defined by that statute. Upon such notification, 
the Congress has 30 calendar days during which the sale may be 
reviewed. The provision stipulates that, in the Senate, the 
notification of proposed sales shall be sent to the chairman of the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
  In keeping with the committee's intention to see that relevant 
information is available to the full Senate, I ask unanimous constent 
to have printed in the Record the notifications which have been 
received. If the cover letter references a classified annex, then such 
annex is available to all Senators in the office of the Foreign 
Relations Committee, room SD-423.
  There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in 
the Record, as follows:

                                                  Defense Security


                                           Cooperation Agency,

                                                    Arlington, VA.
     Hon. Bob Corker.
     Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
     U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
       Dear Mr. Chairman: Pursuant to the reporting requirements 
     of Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
     amended, we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No. 17-04, 
     concerning the Department of the Navy's proposed Letter(s) of 
     Offer and Acceptance for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for 
     defense articles and services estimated to cost $250 million. 
     After this letter is delivered to your office, we plan to 
     issue a news release to notify the public of this proposed 
     sale.
           Sincerely,
                                                      J. W. Rixey,
                                      Vice Admiral, USN, Director.
       Enclosures.


                         Transmittal No. 17-04

     Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to 
         Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
         amended
       (i) Prospective Purchaser: Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
       (ii) Total Estimated Value:
       Major Defense Equipment $ 0 million.
       Other $250 million.
       Total $250 million.
       (iii) Description and Quantity or Ouantities of Articles or 
     Services under Consideration for Purchase:
       Major Defense Equipment (MDE): None.
       Non-MDE includes:
       Continuation of a naval blanket order training program 
     inside and outside of Saudi Arabia that includes, but is not 
     limited, to English Language training, professional military 
     education, technical training, publications and technical 
     documentation, U.S. Government and contractor engineering, 
     technical and logistics support services, and other related 
     elements of logistical and program support.
       (iv) Military Department: Navy.
       (v) Prior Related Cases, if any: SR-P-TCY.
       (vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or Agreed 
     to be Paid: None.
       (vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the Defense 
     Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: None.
       (viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: MAY 22, 2017.
       *As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export Control 
     Act.


                          POLICY JUSTIFICATION

          Kingdom of Saudi Arabia--Navy Blanket Order Training

       The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has requested the continuation 
     of a naval blanket order training program inside and outside 
     of Saudi Arabia that includes, but is not limited to English 
     Language training, professional military education, technical 
     training, publications and technical documentation, U.S. 
     Government and contractor engineering, technical and 
     logistics support services, and other related elements of 
     logistical and program support. The estimated value is $250 
     million.
       This proposed sale will enhance the foreign policy and 
     national security objectives of the United States by helping 
     to improve the security of a strategic regional partner that 
     has been, and continues to be, an important force for 
     political stability and economic progress in the Middle East.
       The proposed sale will enable Saudi Arabia and the Royal 
     Saudi Naval Force (RSNF) to maintain military performance 
     levels and provide an increased ability to meet current and 
     future maritime threats. The training will support the RSNF 
     in its role patrolling and providing protection for critical 
     industrial infrastructure and for the sea lines of 
     communications. The RSNF will also use the training to 
     enhance interoperability with the United States and other 
     coalition maritime forces. Saudi Arabia will have no 
     difficulty absorbing these services.
       The proposed sale of this training will not alter the basic 
     military balance in the region.
       The prime contractor will be Kratos Defense & Security 
     Solutions of San Diego, CA. There are no known offset 
     agreements in connection with this potential sale.
       Implementation of this proposed sale will require the 
     assignment of approximately 88 contractor representatives to 
     Saudi Arabia for approximately three years to support 
     personnel training. Implementation of this sale will not 
     require the assignment of any additional U.S. Government 
     representatives to Saudi Arabia.
       There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense readiness 
     as a result of this proposed sale.

                          ____________________



