

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 90 (Wednesday, May 24, 2017)]
[House]
[Page H4513]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




    RECOGNIZING 75TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE BATTLE OF THE CORAL SEA AND 
                       LIEUTENANT WILLIAM E. HALL

  The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. Farenthold) for 5 minutes.
  Mr. FARENTHOLD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 75th 
anniversary of the Battle of the Coral Sea, which took place in May 
1942, and the heroic actions of sailors and naval aviators like William 
E. Hall. The Battle of the Coral Sea was the world's first battle in 
which aircraft carriers engaged each other; the first sea battle in 
which neither side could see each other; and the battle that paved the 
way for the American victory at the Battle of Midway.
  With the Japanese fleet moving to strengthen its position in the 
South Pacific and capture Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea, the United 
States, using intercepted signal intelligence, moved to block the 
Japanese ships as they crossed the Coral Sea. U.S. Admiral Nimitz 
ordered two aircraft carriers, the USS Yorktown and the USS Lexington 
and a number of smaller warships into the area. For 4 days, the 
opposing navies deployed aircraft on bombing runs against enemy ships.
  On May 7, 1942, Lieutenant Hall flew a SBD Dauntless dive bomber and 
attacked the Japanese aircraft carrier Shoho until it sank. On May 8, 
Lieutenant Hall defended the USS Lexington against a Japanese air force 
attack. Despite piloting a bomber ill-equipped for aerial combat, and 
dealing with numerous bullet wounds and shrapnel in his skull, 
Lieutenant Hall shot down three Japanese planes before landing safely 
back on the deck of the Lady Lex.
  When the smoke lifted, more than 650 brave American sailors had died. 
The enemy destroyed 69 U.S. aircraft. The Yorktown was severely 
disabled, and the USS Lexington had to be scuttled after taking 
critical damage. However, the U.S. forces critically damaged many 
Japanese ships, forcing them to turn back without capturing Port 
Moresby.
  Furthermore, the loss of two Japanese ships led to a smaller Japanese 
force at the Battle of Midway, which is considered a key factor for the 
United States' victory there, and turning the tide of World War II. It 
is considered by historians to be ``the most stunning and decisive blow 
in the history of naval warfare.''
  For his ``extreme courage, and conspicuous heroism in combat, above 
and beyond the call of duty as a pilot,'' Lieutenant Hall was presented 
the United States military's highest honor, the Medal of Honor.
  While the original USS Lexington ended up on the ocean floor, its 
legacy lived on in a new aircraft carrier, also named the Lexington, 
which served the U.S. Navy from 1943 to 1991. The new Lexington now 
serves as a floating museum in Corpus Christi Bay where visitors can 
explore and learn about its storied past in conflict zones across the 
world.
  Additionally, Lieutenant Hall's daughter Gwen, a Navy veteran 
herself, serves as a volunteer on the ship to share the history of its 
namesake in the Battle of the Coral Sea and her father's action. Now, 
75 years later, we remember the historic battle and, more importantly, 
those who served on the original Lexington, fought in the Battle of the 
Coral Sea, and helped ensure that the Japanese and Axis powers would 
never overtake the South Pacific.


         Congratulations to Calallen High School's Phil Danaher

  Mr. FARENTHOLD. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize the incredible 
career of the winningest Texas high school football coach in history, 
Calallen High School's Phil Danaher.
  Coach Danaher was born in Missouri, but his family quickly moved to 
south Texas. He played football at Harlingen High School before 
receiving a scholarship to play at Angelo State University.
  After graduating in 1971, Coach Danaher became an assistant coach in 
San Antonio. In 1974, he landed his first head-coaching job in Dilley, 
Texas, and 4 years later, he moved on to become the head coach at 
Hamshire-Fannett High School.
  In 1984, Coach Danaher took on the challenge of turning around the 
football program at Calallen High School, which had not reached the 
playoffs in 28 years. Thirty-three years later, Coach Danaher has led 
the Wildcats to 32 straight playoff appearances; 19 district 
championships; 11 trips to the State semifinals; and 2 State 
championships.
  In Coach Danaher's 43 seasons of coaching, his overall record stands 
at 432 wins, 108 losses, and 4 ties. Coach Danaher's record-breaking 
success is a testament to his hard work and the thousands of lives he 
has touched while coaching the Wildcats.
  Mr. Speaker, I offer my congratulations to Coach Danaher, his family, 
and everyone at Calallen High School.

                          ____________________



