

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 125 (Tuesday, July 25, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 125 (Tuesday, July 25, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4192-S4193]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                         ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS


                                 S. 170

  At the request of Mr. Rubio, the names of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. Gardner) and the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Markey) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 170, a bill to provide for nonpreemption of 
measures by State and local governments to divest from entities that 
engage in commerce-related or investment-related boycott, divestment, 
or sanctions activities targeting Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 259

  At the request of Mr. Nelson, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Burr) was added as a cosponsor of S. 259, a bill to 
modify the prohibition on recognition by United States courts of 
certain rights relating to certain marks, trade names, or commercial 
names.


                                 S. 266

  At the request of Mr. Hatch, the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. Rounds) was added as a cosponsor of S. 266, a bill to award 
the Congressional Gold Medal to Anwar Sadat in recognition of his 
heroic achievements and courageous contributions to peace in the Middle 
East.


                                 S. 372

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. Kaine) was added as a cosponsor of S. 372, a bill to amend the 
Tariff Act of 1930 to ensure that merchandise arriving through the mail 
shall be subject to review by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and to 
require the provision of advance electronic information on shipments of 
mail to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and for other purposes.


                                 S. 407

  At the request of Mr. Crapo, the name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. Van Hollen) was added as a cosponsor of S. 407, a bill to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the railroad 
track maintenance credit.


                                 S. 445

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. Booker) was added as a cosponsor of S. 445, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to ensure more timely access to home 
health services for Medicare beneficiaries under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 448

  At the request of Mr. Brown, the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. Leahy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 448, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for treatment of clinical 
psychologists as physicians for purposes of furnishing clinical 
psychologist services under the Medicare program.


                                 S. 474

  At the request of Mr. Graham, the name of the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
Cornyn) was added as a cosponsor of S. 474, a bill to condition 
assistance to the West Bank and Gaza on steps by the Palestinian 
Authority to end violence and terrorism against Israeli citizens.


                                 S. 602

  At the request of Ms. Collins, the names of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. Peters) and the Senator from South Carolina (Mr. Graham) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 602, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to include automated fire sprinkler system retrofits as 
section 179 property and classify certain automated fire sprinkler 
system retrofits as 15-year property for purposes of depreciation.


                                 S. 654

  At the request of Mr. Toomey, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. Schumer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 654, a bill to revise 
section 48 of title 18, United States Code, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 720

  At the request of Mr. Portman, the name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. Kennedy) was added as a cosponsor of S. 720, a bill to amend the 
Export Administration Act of 1979 to include in the prohibitions on 
boycotts against allies of the United States boycotts fostered by 
international governmental organizations against Israel and to direct 
the Export-Import Bank of the United States to oppose boycotts against 
Israel, and for other purposes.


                                 S. 822

  At the request of Mr. Inhofe, the name of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. Warren) was added as a cosponsor of S. 822, a bill 
to amend the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act of 1980 to modify provisions relating to grants, and for 
other purposes.


                                S. 1002

  At the request of Mr. Moran, the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mrs. Fischer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1002, a bill to enhance 
the ability of community financial institutions to foster economic 
growth and serve their communities, boost small businesses, increase 
individual savings, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1018

  At the request of Mr. Cardin, the name of the Senator from North 
Carolina (Mr. Tillis) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1018, a bill to 
provide humanitarian assistance for the Venezuelan people, to defend 
democratic governance and combat widespread public corruption in 
Venezuela, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1146

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from Michigan

[[Page S4193]]

(Ms. Stabenow) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1146, a bill to enhance 
the ability of the Office of the National Ombudsman to assist small 
businesses in meeting regulatory requirements and develop outreach 
initiatives to promote awareness of the services the Office of the 
National Ombudsman provides, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1182

  At the request of Ms. Cantwell, her name was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 1182, a bill to require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint 
commemorative coins in recognition of the 100th anniversary of The 
American Legion.


                                S. 1199

  At the request of Mrs. McCaskill, the names of the Senator from 
Montana (Mr. Tester) and the Senator from Wisconsin (Mr. Johnson) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1199, a bill to amend the Homeland Security 
Act of 2002 to reauthorize the Border Enforcement Security Task Force 
program within the Department of Homeland Security, and for other 
purposes.


                                S. 1251

  At the request of Mr. Warner, the name of the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. Young) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1251, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Labor to establish a pilot program for providing portable 
benefits to eligible workers, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1286

  At the request of Ms. Klobuchar, the name of the Senator from 
California (Mrs. Feinstein) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1286, a bill 
to lift the trade embargo on Cuba.


                                S. 1290

  At the request of Mr. Lee, the names of the Senator from Georgia (Mr. 
Perdue) and the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Inhofe) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1290, a bill to help individuals receiving assistance 
under means-tested welfare programs obtain self-sufficiency, to provide 
information on total spending on means-tested welfare programs, to 
provide an overall spending limit on means-tested welfare programs, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1331

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. Schumer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1331, a bill to establish 
the Great Lakes Mass Marking Program, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1332

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. Schumer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1332, a bill to establish 
the Great Lakes Aquatic Connectivity and Infrastructure Program, and 
for other purposes.


                                S. 1398

  At the request of Ms. Stabenow, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. Schumer) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1398, a bill to direct the 
Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, to 
release an interim report related to aquatic nuisance species control, 
and for other purposes.


                                S. 1462

  At the request of Mrs. Shaheen, the name of the Senator from New 
Mexico (Mr. Heinrich) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1462, a bill to 
amend the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to improve cost 
sharing subsidies.


                                S. 1480

  At the request of Mr. King, the name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. Franken) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1480, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to include biomass heating appliances for 
tax credits available for energy-efficient building property and energy 
property.


                                S. 1575

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from New 
Hampshire (Ms. Hassan) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1575, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide a tax credit for 
taxpayers who remove lead-based hazards.


                                S. 1585

  At the request of Mr. Whitehouse, the name of the Senator from 
Virginia (Mr. Warner) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1585, a bill to 
amend the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to provide for 
additional disclosure requirements for corporations, labor 
organizations, Super PACs and other entities, and for other purposes.


                                S. 1598

  At the request of Mr. Tester, the names of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand), the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. Menendez) and the 
Senator from Virginia (Mr. Warner) were added as cosponsors of S. 1598, 
a bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to make certain 
improvements in the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs, and for other purposes.
  At the request of Mr. Isakson, the name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
Grassley) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1598, supra.


                                S. 1600

  At the request of Ms. Hirono, the name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. Gillibrand) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1600, a bill to amend 
title II of the Social Security Act and the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to make improvements in the old-age, survivors, and disability 
insurance program, and to provide for Social Security benefit 
protection.


                                S. 1619

  At the request of Mr. Durbin, the name of the Senator from 
Connecticut (Mr. Blumenthal) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1619, a 
bill to amend the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to extend the 
interest rate limitation on debt entered into during military service 
to debt incurred during military service to consolidate or refinance 
student loans incurred before military service.


                                S. 1620

  At the request of Mr. Cotton, the name of the Senator from Florida 
(Mr. Rubio) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1620, a bill to enhance the 
security of Taiwan and bolster its participation in the international 
community, and for other purposes.

                          ____________________



