

Congressional Record, Volume 163 Issue 123 (Thursday, July 20, 2017)

[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 123 (Thursday, July 20, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4115-S4116]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




              INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS

  The following bills and joint resolutions were introduced, read the 
first and second times by unanimous consent, and referred as indicated:

           By Mr. BLUNT (for himself, Mr. Cochran, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. 
             Manchin, Mr. Enzi, Mr. Thune, Mr. Strange, and Mrs. 
             Capito):
       S. 1592. A bill to prohibit the Federal Government from 
     requiring race or ethnicity to be disclosed in connection 
     with the transfer of a firearm; to the Committee on the 
     Judiciary.
           By Ms. HARRIS (for herself and Mr. Paul):
       S. 1593. A bill to provide grants to States and Indian 
     tribes to reform their criminal justice system to encourage 
     the replacement of the use of payment of secured money bail 
     as a condition of pretrial release in criminal cases, and for 
     other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr. Cruz, Mr. Lankford, Mr. 
             Cotton, Mr. Strange, and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 1594. A bill to amend the National Labor Relations Act 
     to modify the authority of the National Labor Relations Board 
     with respect to rulemaking, issuance of complaints, and 
     authority over unfair labor practices; to the Committee on 
     Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mrs. Shaheen):
       S. 1595. A bill to amend the Hizballah International 
     Financing Prevention Act of 2015 to impose additional 
     sanctions with respect to Hizballah, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr. Rubio):
       S. 1596. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     increase certain funeral benefits for veterans, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. JOHNSON:
       S. 1597. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
     to permit the Secretary of the Treasury and the Commissioner 
     of the Social Security Administration to disclose certain 
     return information related to identity theft, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Mr. Tester, Mr. Rounds, 
             Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. Tillis, Mr. Manchin, Mr. Heller, 
             Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Franken, Mr. Crapo, 
             Mr. Donnelly, Mr. Inhofe, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. 
             Sullivan, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Daines, Mr. Udall, Ms. 
             Collins, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Peters, Mr. 
             Rubio, Mr. Brown, Mr. Roberts, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. 
             Moran, Ms. Hirono, Mrs. Capito, Ms. Hassan, Mr. 
             Boozman, Mr. Cardin, Mrs. Fischer, Mr. Nelson, Ms. 
             Stabenow, Mrs. Shaheen, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Blumenthal, 
             Ms. Warren, and Mr. Cassidy):
       S. 1598. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     make certain improvements in the laws administered by the 
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. KAINE (for himself and Mr. Portman):
       S. 1599. A bill to require the Secretary of Labor to award 
     grants for promoting industry or sector partnerships to 
     encourage industry growth and competitiveness and to improve 
     worker training, retention, and advancement; to the Committee 
     on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
           By Ms. HIRONO (for herself and Mr. Merkley):
       S. 1600. A bill to amend title II of the Social Security 
     Act and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to make 
     improvements in the old-age, survivors, and disability 
     insurance program, and to provide for Social Security benefit 
     protection; to the Committee on Finance.
           By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. 
             Franken, and Ms. Harris):
       S. 1601. A bill to amend the Fair Housing Act to establish 
     that certain conduct, in or around a dwelling, shall be 
     considered to be severe or pervasive for purposes of 
     determining whether a certain type of sexual harassment has 
     occurred under that Act, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
           By Mrs. GILLIBRAND:
       S. 1602. A bill to authorize the Secretary of the Interior 
     to conduct a study to assess the suitability and feasibility 
     of designating certain land as the Finger Lakes National 
     Heritage Area, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Energy and Natural Resources.
           By Mr. HOEVEN:
       S. 1603. An original bill making appropriations for 
     Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, 
     and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year ending

[[Page S4116]]

     September 30, 2018, and for other purposes; from the 
     Committee on Appropriations; placed on the calendar.
           By Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Hoeven, and Mr. 
             Cruz):
       S. 1604. A bill to establish the Daniel Webster 
     Congressional Clerkship Program; to the Committee on Rules 
     and Administration.
           By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mrs. Murray, Ms. Cortez 
             Masto, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. Warren, Mrs. Gillibrand, 
             and Mrs. Feinstein):
       S. 1605. A bill to improve the response to sexual assault 
     and sexual harassment on board aircraft operated in passenger 
     air transportation, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
           By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mr. Franken):
       S. 1606. A bill to authorize grants for the support of 
     caregivers; to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
     Pensions.
           By Mr. HATCH:
       S. 1607. A bill to establish a pilot program to transform 
     the Federal-aid highway program to a performance- and 
     outcome-based program, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. FLAKE (for himself, Mr. Paul, Mr. Donnelly, and 
             Mr. Murphy):
       S. 1608. A bill to authorize the Capitol Police Board to 
     make payments from the United States Capitol Police Memorial 
     Fund to employees of the United States Capitol Police who 
     have sustained serious line-of-duty injuries, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Rules and Administration.
           By Mr. ALEXANDER:
       S. 1609. An original bill making appropriations for energy 
     and water development and related agencies for the fiscal 
     year ending September 30, 2018, and for other purposes; from 
     the Committee on Appropriations; placed on the calendar.
           By Mr. SCOTT (for himself and Mr. Grassley):
       S. 1610. A bill to require law enforcement agencies to 
     report the use of lethal force, and for other purposes; to 
     the Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. HOEVEN (for himself and Mr. Rounds):
       S. 1611. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to 
     allow the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to enter into certain 
     agreements with non-Department of Veterans Affairs health 
     care providers if the Secretary is not feasibly able to 
     provide health care in facilities of the Department or 
     through contracts or sharing agreements, and for other 
     purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
           By Mr. HATCH:
       S. 1612. A bill to expand the definition of highway safety 
     improvement project under section 148 of title 23, United 
     States Code, to include education integrated into an approved 
     State strategic highway safety plan, and for other purposes; 
     to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.
           By Mr. RISCH:
       S. 1613. A bill to amend the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife 
     Restoration Act to modernize the funding of wildlife 
     conservation, and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
     Environment and Public Works.
           By Ms. DUCKWORTH:
       S. 1614. A bill to provide for the regulation of video 
     visitation services and inmate calling services by the 
     Federal Communications Commission generally, to establish 
     criteria for the provision of video visitation services by 
     the Bureau of Prisons, and for other purposes; to the 
     Committee on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. GRAHAM (for himself, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Flake, and 
             Mr. Schumer):
       S. 1615. A bill to authorize the cancellation of removal 
     and adjustment of status of certain individuals who are long-
     term United States residents and who entered the United 
     States as children and for other purposes; to the Committee 
     on the Judiciary.
           By Mr. CRAPO (for himself, Mr. Perdue, Mr. Tillis, Mr. 
             Cotton, Mr. Scott, Mr. Heller, Mr. Rounds, Mr. 
             Toomey, Mr. Shelby, Mr. Corker, Mr. Sasse, Mr. Moran, 
             Mrs. Capito, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Isakson, Mr. Barrasso, 
             Mr. Wicker, Mr. Enzi, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Cruz, 
             Mr. Lankford, Mr. Strange, and Mr. Cochran):
       S.J. Res. 47. A joint resolution providing for 
     congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United 
     States Code, of the rule submitted by Bureau of Consumer 
     Financial Protection relating to ``Arbitration Agreements''; 
     to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.

                          ____________________



